Greens-Baerbock

Q1: March 2023: You and your Party Co-Leader, Robert Habeck, want to decide together who will be the Green Party chancellor candidate in around a month. Until then, what do you want to do to prepare for the upcoming election season?
A1: I’m working on a book together with a journalist right now. When I release the book this summer, I want it to be good - so I’ll focus all my energy on finishing that.
F1: You rework some suboptimal passages and touch up the book. Hopefully, this will help you in the summer, since right now, you do nothing to appeal to voters.
A2: If I want to become chancellor, I can’t be dragged down by unnecessary scandals. I’ll make sure my CV and my finances are in order.
F2: You fix up some minor irregularities in your CV and report some small earnings you forgot to the parliament - hopefully, this will help later,  since right now, you do nothing to appeal to voters.
A3: My name recognition is not that high. I want to get out there, go to talk shows, give interviews, and generally make sure the German people know me.
F3: Both your name recognition and your favourability numbers improve in the coming weeks.
A4: Friday for Futures is capable of mobilizing a massive amount of people. I will visit some demonstrations and meet with their leadership to get them on our side.
F4: In the past, the Green Party has been criticized by Fridays for Future for not being ambitious enough. This might help, though many people who care about the climate a lot already vote Green.

Q2: The Corona Pandemic is the topic that is dominating the news and political discourse right now. With the Greens not governing on the federal level, you can do little in terms of actual policy though. What’s something you want to focus on in the discourse?
A1: Overall, we support the policy of the government. I will criticize their sometimes chaotic response but also make it clear that we broadly stand behind all necessary measures.
F1: You don’t make headlines with this stance, but this is broadly popular.
A2: Since the beginning of the pandemic, there hasn’t been enough of a focus on children and families. We will present a plan to get them back to school quickly and give them financial aid.
F2: This is a good avenue of attack, many feel that the needs of children have not been adequately met.
A3: While the lockdowns were absolutely necessary at the beginning of the pandemic, we shouldn’t overdo them now - there has to be a balance of liberty and security.
F3: The FDP agrees with your position, and you might win over some of their voters - however, many others feel that this might be premature.
A4: I will use this as an example of a general problem with our government and the CDU in particular - they only act once a crisis is happening and don’t do enough to prepare us beforehand!
F4: Many people agree that this country needs change, but this doesn’t make clear why the Green Party would be the better alternative.

Q3: April 2021: You’ve come to an agreement with your co-party leader Habeck. You both want to avoid a messy leadership challenge, and he agrees to give you precedence to become chancellor candidate. Now is the time to give your first speech as official chancellor candidate!
A1: With my candidacy, I want to give the whole country an offer —a compelling invitation to lead our diverse and prosperous nation into a bright future.
F1: With the CDU and SPD both struggling in the polls, it looks like you have a chance to actually win. Your speech is mostly well received.
A2: Forty years ago, the Green Party was founded to make politics do more about the environment. Today, I continue in this tradition, as the only candidate that truly takes climate change seriously.
F2: A strong focus on climate change will mobilize your core voters. It’s unclear if that’s enough to win - however, with the CDU and SPD both struggling in the polls, it might.
A3: After eight years of Grand coalition and sixteen years of CDU chancellorship, this country needs change. I’m the right woman to give this country the new start this needs.
F3: A compelling argument, many voters desire change, and with the CDU and SPD both struggling in the polls right now, you might be able to deliver it in the fall.
A4: We have a historic opportunity to win the chancellorship for the Green Party this election. I want to be a chancellor for everyone and promise to focus on sensible reform and proposals.
F4: This comes across as an offer to disillusioned CDU voters - with both their party and the SPD struggling in the polls, you have an opportunity to win this election.

Q4: After a messy leadership contest, the CDU has chosen Armin Laschet as their chancellor candidate. With this, you, the CDU/CSU and the SPD have all chosen a chancellor candidate. In general, you can now decide your strategy for this election campaign.
A1: It’s clear that the SPD is not going to win this election. I want to present myself as the candidate of the left spectrum and win over as many leftwing voters as possible.
F1: Voters on the Left have traditionally been your base - with this strategy, you draw voters from both the SPD and the Left.
A2: Traditionally, the Greens have been a left-of-centre party. However, to actually win this, we need to draw voters from the CDU. Armin Laschet is a weak candidate and I’ll present myself as the best alternative to him.
F2: Especially older CDU voters are hard to win over for you and you are attacked from the left. You manage to make inroads with CDU voters who are unhappy with Laschet, though.
A3: Our base is largely young, urban, and well-off. We will put our resources into mobilizing them and getting them to turn out his election.
F3: Your base alone is not big enough to get you into first place. You’ll have to win over voters from other parties as well.
A4: Our polling numbers in West Germany are great, but we are struggling to even get to 10% in many East German states. There is an untapped voter potential for us there, so let’s focus on East Germany.
F4: The Green Party message just doesn’t seem to resonate as much with people in East Germany. Maybe you can change this?

Q5: With a Green chancellor now looking like a realistic option, many are curious about your foreign policy. Can you clarify your position on that?
A1: While we want to remain a member of NATO, of course, we need to move on from the unnecessary goal to spend 2% of our gross domestic product on defence. We need to instead spend our defence budget more efficiently.
F1: You’re attacked for this position by the CDU, However, it’s broadly popular with more leftwing voters without spooking pro-defence voters too much.
A2: We have to be tougher on states that don’t care about human rights, like Russia and China. For example, I’m in favour of stopping to build North-Stream 2 pipeline and stopping to import products from China that might have been produced using forced labour.
F2: This position is appreciated by human rights activists, but the business community is alarmed. It’s unclear if coming out so strongly here was good for you, even though you have the moral high ground.
A3: The Green Party has always been the party of pacifism. We need to drastically reduce our military spending and rethink our relationship with NATO. There are more important things we can spend this money on.
F3: 30 years ago, this would have been a mainstream position within your party. Now, it’s on the fringe, and a too simplistic worldview for most voters.
A4: We don’t want to rock the boat here. I want to reaffirm our commitment to NATO but also emphasize that diplomatic solutions are always preferable to military conflicts.
F4: People really don’t know much better what your position is now - you also don’t differentiate yourself from other parties.

Q6: May 2021: The Federal Constitutional Court just ruled the Climate Protection Act unconstitutional and demands the government do more to lower emissions. The federal government in Berlin is now working on making the law stricter. You’re participating in the debate about this in the Bundestag.
A1: We can’t hide behind ambitious goals for 2030 or 2040 or whenever, the time to act is now! We wasted time in the last years, and we have to quickly make up for it.
F1: As expected, you’re strongly pushing for more ambitious plans - this mostly resonates with the electorate.
A2: Five years ago, this house ratified the Paris climate accords. Every democratic party here agrees that something needs to be done, so let’s find solutions together.
F2: You’re emphasizing consensus here - on the one hand, that might make coalition talks after the election easier, on the other, your core voters hoped for more.
A3: We need more than just goals we want to achieve, we need to talk about concrete measures to actually achieve this. After the next election, we want to form a climate ministry to coordinate more.
F3: Many voters appreciate your focus on actions instead of talk, though some are concerned about specific provisions in your climate plans.
A4: We have had many transformations in the history of this country: Introducing the social market economy after World War 2, the reunification and European integration after 1990. Now is the time for another transformation and a Green New Deal for Europe.
F4: People were hoping for more concrete policy proposals instead of a history lesson and lofty rhetorics.

Q7: While you are the chancellor candidate for the Green Party, many in the party wonder how you want to use your co-party leader, Robert Habeck, in this campaign. What do you want him to focus on?
A1: He’s very popular in his home state Schleswig-Holstein. I want him to campaign there during this election campaign.
F1: While he is popular in the state, many feel like you are leaving an opportunity on the table by underutilizing him. The snide remarks by Habeck when he’s asked why he got sidelined don’t help either.
A2: We are co-party leaders and I want to campaign a lot as a duo. He’s especially knowledgeable on economic and fiscal policy, so I want him to unveil and explain our plans on these topics.
F2: Habeck is happy to cooperate with you and helps you on the campaign trail. There are talks of him maybe becoming Finance Minister after the election.
A3: Actually, Habeck is probably more knowledgeable on a lot of topics than me. I’ll mostly talk about generic things while letting him focus on policy details.
F3: This just makes you seem incompetent, and a lot of people wonder why you are the candidate instead of Habeck.
A4: A good strategy would be to use him to attack our opponents, while I remain above the fray and positive.
F4: Habeck’s personality is just not suited for that task. He tries to go on the attack a lot, but if often comes across as bizarre and hurts more than it helps.

Q8: In the past years, you’ve received several payments from the Green Party for your activity as party leader. While the payments themselves were perfectly legal, you’ve forgotten to report them to the parliament as you have to and are criticized in the media by this.
A1: I apologize for this mistake, I’ve reported this now. I hope people will quickly move on from this.
F1: Hopefully, people will quickly move on from this - it isn’t too bad, but still hurts your image.
A2: This was just a small lapse of judgement - nothing compared to the corrupt mask deals in the CDU/CSU and Scholz’ Wirecard and cum-ex scandal.
F2: This leads to accusations being thrown around between all three parties, dragging down everyone’s favourability numbers.
A3: Other politicians have received much higher payments in the same timeframe. This is why the Green Party stands for more transparency regarding the earnings of MPs.
F3: It’s true that the Green Party has called for this, but after not even following the current rules, this makes you sound hypocritical.

Q9: Time and time again, the Green Party has said that more needs to be done about climate change. In an interview, you are now asked what this means concretely for the price of gasoline.
A1: Unfortunately, if we want to lower our carbon emissions, the price of gasoline has to rise by about 16 cents per litre over the next five years.
F1: Environmental organisations agree, though, with gas prices at an all-time high already, this is sharply criticized by many others.
A2: As the price for CO2 rises, so will the rise of gasoline. We have to keep an eye on affordability, but it is unavoidable.
F2: At least you are trying to hedge the issue, though since you didn’t say a number, a lot of people assume the worst.
A3: Gas prices have to rise a lot - around 28 cents per litre over the next five years. We need to invest in public transit too to make more people give up their cars.
F3: Everyone but the most ardent environmentalists is deeply alarmed by that statement - your opponents point out that this would make using a car unaffordable for large parts of the population.
A4: After the price for CO2 went into effect at the beginning of the year, gas prices have risen by 6 cents per litre already - for now, this is enough.
F4: The next day, FridayForFutures calls for environmentally minded people to vote for climate lists instead of the Green Party. This will probably hurt you, especially among young people.

Q10: June 2021: You’ve come under fire for irregularities in your CV. After the problems with your extraparliamentary earnings, this is yet another topic which threatens to destroy your image of competency.
A1: I apologise for these mistakes, which have been corrected now. However, we shouldn’t lose sight of the more important topics.
F1: Unfortunately, after you forgot to report your earnings and now this, the media prefers to focus on these scandals - which hurts your image quite a bit.
A2: This is a non-issue, the media is trying to find a scandal where there is none. I will fight back against these unfair allegations.
F2: A few people agree that you are unfairly attacked, though broadly, people think that this episode demonstrates your lack of basic care and competence.
A3: If you want to see my correct CV, just look at my website - I don’t get what people are getting so upset about.
F3: You realize that things like the Wayback machine exist, right? Your CV has been edited multiple times in the last few days. This makes you look dishonest in addition to careless.
A4: It was never my aim to embellish my CV, I just made some honest mistakes here. I’m really annoyed with myself for letting this slip through.
F4: Honesty keeps your favourabilities from tanking too much, but a lot of people still doubt your competence now.

Q11: Since 2005, long-time unemployed people in Germany get money from the state at the subsistence level, the so-called Hartz IV. However, they receive less money if they are not looking for a job. Many people are not happy with this system - what does the Green Party want to change?
A1: We need how the level is calculated so that everyone is receiving at least 50€ more. Furthermore, there should be no more sanctions if someone isn’t actively looking for a job.
F1: This is somewhat on the left spectrum of the debate, though still palpable for moderates.  It also shouldn’t be a hindrance in coalition talks.
A2: The current level of Hartz IV is a disgrace. There needs to be a massive raise, by around 200€, and an end to the unnecessary and inhumane sanctions for people not searching for a job.
F2: With a proposal and rhetoric like this, you win over some Left Party voters and poorer people - though more moderate people find this too hard to stomach, and conservatives attack you for wanting unchecked government handouts.
A3: Instead of Hartz IV, there should be a higher, universal basic income for all people in Germany. While this is expensive, the savings on bureaucracy make it possible to finance this.
F3: Experts doubt your math here and call it impossible to finance. On the whole, this idea is on the fringe and not all that popular.
A4: The system needs some minor adjustments - we can look into gradually raising the amount of money paid out but have to be careful that it doesn’t become excessive.
F4: Rhetoric like this is less leftist than voters are used to from you. Some moderates like this, though people on the left and your own youth wing are not happy at all.

Q12: A policy field which has been a surprisingly big topic this election - likely due to the Covid pandemic and subsequent lockdowns - is digitalization. What plans does the Green Party have?
A1: The Grand coalition has failed Germany in this regard, as was plain to see during the lockdowns. Under a Green government, we will put a lot of resources into moderninzing the digital infrastructure of this country.
F1: It’s good to press the attack here - you weren’t in the last decade and can credibly offer change.
A2: We have to do a lot more to make our government data transparent. Non-personal data should be made public for all citizens.
F2: People concerned about data transparency like this. The average voter doesn’t really care, though.
A3: Frankly, it’s embarrassing how much government agencies still rely on old-fashioned methods. We have to make investments here to help them build more modern, digital systems.
F3: Your right and voters agree, but that doesn’t do anything to differentiate yourself from other parties.
A4: For too long, we have relied on American companies for everything related to digitalization. We need German and European solutions, to be more independent and protect our data better.
F4: Generally, voters agree, though it’s unclear how much you can actually do to change this situation.

Q13: One possible measure to reduce carbon emissions that has been suggested by your party again and again is a general speed limit on the German Autobahn. Yet again, you’re asked about this in an interview.
A1: I want to reaffirm our position here -  we need a general tempo limit of 130 km/h to reduce carbon emissions. We have to hit our emission targets somehow and reducing traffic emissions is one part of that.
F1: You’ve stuck to your principles here, but this is a divisive topic. The FDP in particular attacks you sharply for it.
A2: We need a tempo limit, yes, but not just for climate reasons: A lot of accidents and deaths could be avoided if people wouldn’t be speeding excessively.
F2: While the tempo limit is still divisive, this argument is somewhat more convincing than the pure climate one to the average German.
A3: With a general tempo limit being so unpopular, that is not something we want to focus on in the next legislative session. However, we will look into introducing new tempo limits on selected highways.
F3: Your base is very deflated by this, and the SPD and Left party keep advocating for a tempo limit, making you seem spineless.
A4: Not only do we need a general tempo limit of 130 km/h on highways, but we also need one of 30 km/h within city limits - that would be a truly effective measure against climate change.
F4: A general tempo limit on highways is divisive - 30 km/h within city limits is straight-up unpopular. You’ve done yourself no favour with this position.

Q14: July 2021: Recently, you published your book, "Jetzt. Wie wir unser Land erneuern". It has been found that you copied many passages verbatim from internet sources or newspaper articles. How do you react to these accusations?
A1: I’ve made some mistakes, yes, but these accusations are unfair and completely blown out of proportion. I will get a media lawyer to fight back.
F1: Hiring a media lawyer and fighting back so hard helps against the accusation, but also helps keep the story in the news cycle. This is not good for you.
A2: It was a mistake to publish the book in its current state and I apologize for this lapse in judgement. My intention was not to deceive anyone, I simply used quoted widely available facts.
F2: On its own, this apology might have helped you - but after the embarrassing mistakes you’ve made earlier, a lot of people doubt your judgement now.
A3: This book hasn’t been written by just me, I had a co-author. I’ll make it clear that most of the problematic parts were his responsibility and I didn’t have much to do with them.
F3: Your name is on the cover of the book. People see through this attempt to shift the blame and lose trust in you.
A4: I won’t give this smear campaign any oxygen. This book is a biography, not a scientific text, and this right-wing propaganda war against my person is pathetic.
F4: There are people on both sides of the issue here, and despite your attempts to downplay it, the topic dominates the news stories for a few days.

Q15: Widespread flooding is affecting large areas of western, southern and middle Germany. Other politicians, like Laschet, are travelling to the affected areas. Do you want to go there too?
A1: No, it would be improper to try to politicize this catastrophe. I’m of course making statements supporting all the emergency responders, but I won’t go there myself
F1: You’re accused of being unapproachable. However, Laschet had a big gaffe when he was pictured laughing while visiting these regions, so he is hurt way more than you.
A2: I will travel to some of the affected regions, yes. However, I don’t want the press to be around, I just want to talk to some affected people.
F2: This helps you a bit locally, but people elsewhere wonder where you are. Also, Laschet had a big gaffe when he was pictured laughing while visiting these regions and is hurt in the polls.
A3: Yes, I want to go there. Specifically, I want to go to some affected cities with Green Party mayors. I’ll look at the devastation and make a public statement with them.
F3: You get some positive press coverage and good pictures. Meanwhile, Laschet had a big gaffe when he was pictured laughing while visiting these regions and is hurt in the polls.
A4: I don’t want to go there, but I’ll send my co-party leader Habeck there. He is better at talking to people in situations like this. Meanwhile, I’m of course mentioning the catastrophe in speeches.
F4: Habeck gets some good press, but this leads to discussions about why you are the candidate and not him, so it’s unclear if this helped you overall. Meanwhile, Laschet had a big gaffe when he was pictured laughing while visiting these regions and is hurt in the polls.

Q16: After the devastating floodings, climate change is once again a much-discussed topic in the media and politics. You are expected to make a statement on this topic, did this catastrophe affect your stance?
A1: We, the Green Party, have said for decades that we need to do more against climate change to avoid catastrophes like this. That’s why we call, for example, for an end of using coal to produce electricity by 2030.
F1: Coal-producing regions aren’t happy, but this is nothing new. Other than that, this is fairly well received, though some accuse you of politicizing the situation.
A2: I don’t want to come across as wanting to profit from this disaster. Instead of talking about climate change, I will talk about helping the victims in the coming days.
F2: Many feel like you are leaving an opportunity on the table here, with climate change being such a big topic without you having to start the discussion.
A3: This catastrophe has shown that we need to do much, much more to prepare for flooding and other extreme weather events. At the same time, we need to do more to reduce our carbon emissions.
F3: While a few people accuse you of exploiting the catastrophe for political gain, many people agree with this and see you as the most sensible party.
A4: Of course, we need to do more against climate change. I want to specifically call out Armin Laschet here - he said that a day like this is no reason to change anything. What else does he need to see to realize that something must be done?
F4: A scathing attack and a lot of people agree that his statement was tone-deaf. You are seen as negative and petty here though, and a lot of Laschet voters switch to Scholz instead of you.

Q17: It’s now less than two months until the election, and the campaign is heating up. Is there any specific region you want to focus on until election day?
A1: Our party colleagues in the Saarland had some conflict and didn’t manage to settle on a valid candidate list yet. Let’s help them sort this out.
F1: With your help, they manage to finish the list. The Saarland is quite small, but every vote potentially counts, so it’s good that you are eligible there.
A2: Winfried Kretschman, the only Green Minister-President, has just won his reelection this spring and is very popular. I want to campaign with him in Baden-Württemberg and South Germany in general.
F2: Kretschmann’s popularity is an asset in these regions. In a bad development, your state party in the Saarland screwed up their candidate list though, meaning you can’t receive any votes in that state.
A3: I’m quite content with our polling numbers in West Germany, but we are still far behind in East Germany. I want to focus on this region, both by travelling there and promising do to more to help them catch up.
F3: Let’s see if you can help your party perform better in these states than usual.  In a bad development, your state party in the Saarland screwed up their candidate list though, meaning you can’t receive any votes in that state.
A4: The states of Berlin and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern have their state elections parallel to our federal elections. I want to campaign there to help our leading candidates in these elections.
F4: While these might not be the best strategy for your personal result, the two state parties appreciate your help a lot.  In a bad development, your state party in the Saarland screwed up their candidate list though, meaning you can’t receive any votes in that state.


Q18: August 2021: The Covid vaccine has become widely available to the whole population this summer. While a lot of people have gotten it already, the vaccination campaign has become sluggish in recent weeks. What should be done about that in your opinion?
A1: It is legitimate that unvaccinated people don’t have the same rights and privileges as vaccinated people. Maybe that will help convince everyone to get vaccinated.
F1: Broadly, voters agree, though you get attacked by the FDP and elements in your own party for this.
A2: We are doing a lot to get everyone vaccinated right now without thinking about the consequences. What if the vaccine is toxic? We should try some more natural medicine instead.
F2: There is a certain, tiny element of the Green Party that likes this. The rest of your party - as well as general voters - are wondering if you’ve lost your mind.
A3: At this point, we don’t need mandatory vaccinations, though it is something that might be needed later on if the vaccination rates stay too low.
F3: Compulsory vaccinations are generally unpopular, and this statement leaves you wide open for attacks.
A4: Overall, we are on the right path with the vaccination campaign. We need to do more to reach everyone, including mobile vaccination teams going to areas with low vaccination rates yet.
F4: This is a sensible proposal that also sets you apart from the other parties.

Q19:  Early in the campaign, it looked like you were the woman that could beat the CDU. However, it seems increasingly clear that with your current polling that this won’t happen. Voters are starting to give Olaf Scholz and the SPD a second look, causing him to surge and you to collapse.
A1: I’m very concerned about this development. In the next weeks, I will focus on attacking him and his party to stop the bleeding.
F1: Your aggressive strategy can’t stop his surge, but blunts it a little. In the end, the beneficiary of the mudslinging between you and him is the CDU though.
A2: Of course, I’m very disappointed about this. However, honestly, we are still very likely going to be part of the next government and I’d rather govern with Scholz than with Laschet. I won’t attack him and voters that want to switch to him.
F2: Scholz keeps surging, you keep falling in the polls. Hopefully, your analysis will prove right come election night.
A3: While it looks unlikely that I’ll win the chancellorship now, it’s still important that we get a strong Green Party in the next parliament. I will keep campaigning just as before and try to win over as many voters as possible.
F3: This is not enough to stop Scholz’ surge, but you somewhat slow down your fall in the polls at least.

Q20: One topic that’s important basically every election season is tax policy. For you, many people wonder how you want to finance all the new spending you promise - do you want to raise taxes to achieve that?
A1: To finance necessary government spending, tyes on the rich have to be raised. We should reinstate the wealth tax and raise the income tax, but in a way that leaves small and medium income earners unaffected.
F1: Your position is very similar to the SPD`s there. It’s broadly popular on the left spectrum, but you don’t do much to differentiate yourself.
A2: Effectively combatting climate change is out number one priority, and to finance this, taxes need to be raised across the board. The wealthy will of course have to bear the highest increase, but unfortunately, everyone will have to contribute more.
F2: With this position, you’re barely pleasing anyone. Parties on the right attack you for wanting to raise taxes so much, and parties on the left accuse you of being indifferent towards poorer people.
A3: We need to raise taxes on the rich a bit, yes. However, we also need to modify the clause in our constitution that disallows too much government borrowing. It should be possible to take out loans for investments important projects.
F3: A lot of voters follow your logic. However, since a 2/3rds majority is needed to modify the constitution, others doubt that there is any way for you to actually achieve what you want here.
A4: Well, people are right, all the things we promised to do to combat climate change are very expensive. It’s more important to not raise taxes though, so unfortunately, we have to abandon a lot of those promises and only do what’s affordable with current state income.
F4: Your intentions to move towards the middle are good, but giving up your core promise to be the party that actually wants to invests money to do something about climate change will cost you a lot of support.

Q21: The election is in about a month now, and as usual, there will most probably a coalition government afterwards. Which partied do you want to talk to?
A1: The party we have the most overlap with is the SPD - therefore, I want to form a government with them.
F1: Your programs share a lot of similarities, but it’s improbable that you’ll get a majority together. People also notice your silence on the Left party.
A2: I want to categorically rule out a coalition with the Left party, they are just too far from us on foreign policy. Apart from that, we’ll talk to all democratic parties.
F2: This takes away an avenue of attack against you, though you might regret it during the coalition talks.
A3: The only realistic path to a true left-wing government is with the SPD and the Left party. My favourite coalition would be with those two, I’m certain we can find compromises on contentious topics.
F3: The Left party and more leftwing voters welcome this statement, but you’ve confirmed the worst fears of many moderates. It’s also unclear what compromise you can find on foreign policy with a party that wants to exit NATO.
A4: While I won’t rule out a coalition with the Left party, they would have to make significant concessions. It’s easier to image a stable government without them.
F4: You’ve made it hard, but not impossible to walk back from this and actually form a coalition with the Left party after the election. Moderates are generally relieved that you are looking for more sensible options.

Q22: Pictures of the disastrous retreat of NATO troops from Afghanistan go around the globe. The government is sharply criticised for its botched evacuation. What is your opinion on the matter?
A1: Both parties in government, the CDU/CSU and the SPD screwed up here. No matter how much they’re blaming each other, the voters will see that we need to move on from both of them.
F1: With so much mudslinging going on, voters were looking for something more positive - though the government parties still get hurt.
A2: Right now, it’s important that we don’t instrumentalize this topic for the election, but work to find concrete solutions to help the people. The Green Party is willing to work with the government to that end.
F2: Politicians of the SPD and CDU are accusing each other for the failure, while you manage to look sensible and above the fray.
A3: We need to evacuate as many people from Afghanistan as possible, especially people who cooperated with our troops, journalists and womens’ rights activists. They are very endangered after the Taliban takeover.
F3: It’s a good thing to advocate for taking in refugees, since the type of person that considers voting for you is in favour of that. However, it’s unclear how you want to actually save those people.
A4: The Green Party is a party of pacisfism, and we’ve been against this war in Afghanistan from the start. While the pictures are tragic and we need to do what we can to help, this whole episode shows why we shouldn’t get involved in these types of conflicts.
F4: The Green Party voted for the Afghanistan mission and was even part of the government in 2001. This statement by you is attacked as both tone-deaf and factually wrong.

Q23: September 2021: For the first time in German history, a Green Party candidate has been invited to the chancellor debate. In another first, the debate will be three way, between you, Olaf Scholz of the SPD and Armin Laschet of the CDU. Who do you want to focus on?
A1: It will be easier to win over SPD voters, so I will focus on attacking Scholz.
F1: Let’s see how this goes, hopefully you can peel of some left-leaning voters.
A2: Laschet seems like the better target, considering how much he struggled during this election campaign.
F2: Let’s see how this goes, hopefully you can peel off some moderate voters.
A3: Actually, I don’t want to attack anyone, I want to remain positive and above the fray.
F3: Hopefully, the German people will appreciate your positive strategy.
A4: I’ve been invited to this debate, yes, but I doubt the moderators will give me a fair shake. I refuse to participate!
F4: No one understands why you refuse this historic opportunity. This makes it look to people like the chancellor race being between Scholz and Laschet now.

Q24: During the Triell, you decided to focus on Olaf Scholz, vice chancellor and candidate of the SPD. What do you want to attack him on?
A1: He’s the incubent vice chancellor and has been a part of the Grand coalition for the last four years. People who want real change in this country have to look elsewhere!
F1: Overall, you are right, but Scholz points out that he doesn’t want to enter a new Grand coalition and his program contains many new ideas for Germany. Overall, you and win tie the debate.
A2: I want to hit him on his scandals, both as finance minister and earlier. He mishandled the wirecard collapse, was involved in the cum-ex banking scandal and had a disastrous response to the G20 meeting when he was mayor of Hamburg.
F2: These are damaging attacks that really undermine his image as the most competent candidate. Overall, you win the debate.
A3: He’s just not as leftwing as he pretends to be now, not on climate change, not on social security. He’s always been known as a moderate, I’ll attack him on not being serious about all the change promised in the SPD program.
F3: Ah, leftist infighting, a classic. He and you argue a lot about who has the more ambitious, yet realistic, proposals and in the end, Laschet wins the debate.
A4: Actually, I’ve changed my mind. I’m just going to present myself as calm and above petty attacks.
F4: Since you haven’t prepared for this strategy, this doesn’t help you. Scholz is seen as the winner of the debate.

Q25: It’s the final days of the campaign now, the election will happen very soon. With whim do you want to campaign in these last few days?
A1: Luisa Neubauer, the most famous German Fridays For Future activist, is actually a member of the Green Party. I want to hold some campaign events with her.
F1: It takes a lot of convincing to get her to appear with you, but this should help energize the youth vote. Good luck tonight!
A2: For the whole campaign, Robert Habeck as helped me campaign, and I want to do some appearances with him in the final days.
F2: He’s a broadly popular figure, especially in his home state of Schleswig-Holstein. Good luck tonight!
A3: There will be state elections in Berlin and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern parallel to the federal elections. I want to campaign with Bettina Jarasch in Berlin to help make her the second Green head of state government!
F3: While this might not be the best option for you electorally, hopefully you can help her get over the line and finish first. Good luck tonight!
A4: Winfried Kretschmann is the only Green Prime-Minister and a very important figure of the moderate wing of our party. I want to campaign with him.
F4: He’s popular with both moderates and in Baden-Württemberg, so that should especially help you there. Good luck tonight!

Q26: The CDU/CSU had a massive scandal with some of their MPs selling overpriced medical masks earlier this year, while SPD chancellor candidate Scholz has allegedly been involved in a scheme to help banks avoid paying taxes. Do you want to try capitalizing on this?
A1: I trust the German people to choose the most competent candidate and party, there is no need for additional attacks here.
F1: Maybe this is safer, though some advisors feel you could have pushed a bit harder here.
A2: The Green Party has always been in favour of more transparency -  these scandals show why we desperately need to do more against corruption.
F2: It helps that the Green Party has been in favour of this for a long time and that your own image is clean - though some criticize that it took you until earlier this year to report your extraparliamentary earnings.
A3: Yes, I want to attack the CDU/CSU here. The amount of corruption, so many of their MPs trying to profit from the pandemic is appalling. They shouldn’t stay in power.
F3: Many people are outraged about this scandal, but there is little you can do to pile on here.
A4: Yes, I want to attack Olaf Scholz. Both as mayor of Hamburg and as Finance Minister, he has been involved in shady dealings. He is frankly not qualified to become chancellor.
F4: The allegations against Scholz are murky, and it’s unclear if there is much to gain by attacking someone who’s struggling so much in the polls.

Q27: As the election comes closer, many voters are giving you a closer look. The fact that you’ve gone straight into politics after university without working a normal job opens up criticisms of elitism and being out of touch. How do you want to address this?
A1: Actually, let’s lean into this. I’ve studied Political Science and International Law - what else could have prepared me better for the position of German chancellor?
F1: Your competency was not really the question, you don’t really address the allegations of being out of touch this way.
A2: While I might not have the practical experience, I am a working mother. I want to focus on that part of my biography, to show me as more approachable.
F2: Your husband and family don’t appreciate being dragged into the limelight by you. Voters, however, find you more approachable with your family around.
A3: This is a problem all parties in the Bundestag struggle with - there are many more people with a college degree than without in our parliament. We all have to work together to change this.
F3: You are not wrong, but the Green Party is seen as the most elitist by many, and you are seen as an example of this.
A4: I reject the notion that you must have personally experienced something to find the right answers. The point of representative democracy is to choose politicians to represent the people, they don’t have to be like them.
F4: If you’re trying to sound elitist and better than others, this is the way to go. This statement will not hurt you, especially in poorer regions.

Q28: July 2021: Recently, you published your book, "Jetzt. Wie wir unser Land erneuern". It has been found that you copied many passages verbatim from internet sources or newspaper articles. How do you react to these accusations?
A1: I’ve made some mistakes, yes, but these accusations are unfair and completely blown out of proportion. I will get a media lawyer to fight back.
F1: Hiring a media lawyer and fighting back so hard helps against the accusation, but also helps keep the story in the news cycle. This is not good for you.
A2: It was a mistake to publish the book in its current state and I apologize for this lapse in judgement. My intention was not to deceive anyone, I simply used quoted widely available facts.
F2: For a few days, you get bad press for this, but by and large, the German people don’t care too much, and quickly move on after your apology.
A3: This book hasn’t been written by just me, I had a co-author. I’ll make it clear that most of the problematic parts were his responsibility and I didn’t have much to do with them.
F3: Your name is on the cover of the book. People see through this attempt to shift the blame and lose trust in you.
A4: I won’t give this smear campaign any oxygen. This book is a biography, not a scientific text, and this right-wing propaganda war against my person is pathetic.
F4: There are people on both sides of the issue here, and despite your attempts to downplay it, the topic dominates the news stories for a few days.

Q29: You’ve just published a book called "Jetzt. Wie wir unser Land erneuern". Do you want to make it a big part of your election campaign?
A1: Yes, I do! I want to promote the book whenever I give a public speech somewhere and sell copies at a discounted price to get it out to as many people as possible.
F1: There are some complaints that the book is light on specific policies, but overall, it is quite well-received and helps you get your message out to potential voters.
A2: Yes, I do! I want to point towards the book as a serious contribution to the most important policy debate this country has right now. I’ll send copies to journalists and intellectuals so they can review the book.
F2: Your book is just too lightweight for this strategy to work, despite the effort you’ve put into it. It gets mixed reviews from critics who expected something more complex.
A3: Actually, I don’t want to make it a big part of my strategy, no. I’ll announce that it has been published, but won’t do anything special to promote it.
F3: No harm, no foul - but it’s a bit strange to not use the book after you worked on it so hard in the spring.

Q30: August 2021: The Covid vaccine has become widely available to the whole population this summer. While a lot of people have gotten it already, the vaccination campaign has become sluggish in recent weeks. What should be done about that in your opinion?
A1: It is legitimate that unvaccinated people don’t have the same rights and privileges as vaccinated people. Maybe that will help convince everyone to get vaccinated.
F1: Broadly, voters agree, though you get attacked by the FDP and elements in your own party for this.
A2: We are doing a lot to get everyone vaccinated right now without thinking about the consequences. What if the vaccine is toxic? We should try some more natural medicine instead.
F2: There is a certain, tiny element of the Green Party that likes this. The rest of your party - as well as general voters - are wondering if you’ve lost your mind.
A3: At this point, we don’t need mandatory vaccinations, though it is something that might be needed later on if the vaccination rates stay too low.
F3: Compulsory vaccinations are generally unpopular, and this statement leaves you wide open for attacks.
A4: Overall, we are on the right path with the vaccination campaign. We need to do more to reach everyone, including mobile vaccination teams going to areas with low vaccination rates yet.
F4: This is a sensible proposal that also sets you apart from the other parties.

Q31: Throughout the campaign, Olaf Scholz and the SPD have remained have struggled in the polls, and while some people were sceptical of you in the spring, your polling numbers are still good. What’s your strategy for the final few weeks of the campaign?
A1: Our main opponent is the CDU, so I will emphasize our moderation and commitment to lead a sensible government. I’m also a better candidate than Laschet!
F1: After his gaffe, many voters would don’t want Laschet as chancellor, and with Scholz having no realistic path to win, they rally behind you.
A2: The SPD is down, but still the party that’s politically most similar to us, so their voters should be easiest to win over. I will make an effort to target them and get them to vote Green this election.
F2: A few voters are convinced, but mostly, the SPD is down to their loyal core voters already.
A3: It looks like the Left party might struggle to reach 5%. I’ll specifically target their voters, maybe we can keep them out of parliament and simplify finding a majority.
F3: While the amount of votes you gain this way is minimal, this might change the majority calculus after the election. Let’s see if this gambit pays off.
A4: They might be a bit weaker than they were four years ago, but the amount of votes the AfD is projected to receive is still way too high. I’ll try to win over some of their voters.
F4: How exactly do you plan to do that? There are probably no two parties that have as little overlap as you and the AfD. Your efforts will have minimal effects at best.

Q32: During the Triell, you decided to focus on Armin Laschet, Miniter-President of North Rhine-Westphalia and chancellor candidate of the CDU. What do you want to attack him on?
A1: His erratic response to the disastrous floodings this summer shows that he lacks the temperament to be a good chancellor.
F1: Some see this attack as petty, and he tries to fight back, but this is still quite damaging. Overall, you and Scholz tie the debate.
A2: The program of his party regarding climate change is very unambitious. In the past, the CDU/CSU has not done enough to combat climate change, and this wouldn’t change with Laschet as chancellor.
F2: He hits right back, calling your proposals unaffordable and going too far. Overall, Scholz wins the debate.
A3: For the last 16 years, this country has ben governed by the CDU/CSU, and they are out of ideas on what to do in government. This country needs change and Laschet is not the right man to deliver it.
F3: A convincing argument, especially considering that many voters want change and see you as the new and fresh alternative. Overall, you win the debate.
A4: Actually, I’ve changed my mind. I’m just going to present myself as calm and above petty attacks.
F4: Since you haven’t prepared for this strategy, this doesn’t help you. Scholz is seen as the winner of the debate.

Q33: During the Triell, you decided to focus on presenting your case to the German people without too strong attacks. What are your main points?
A1: The CDU/CSU has been in government for 16 years, the SPD for 8. This country needs change, and I’m a fresh face that can deliver it, unlike the other two candidates.
F1: Some voters prefer stability, but many want to see some change for this country. Overall, you win this debate.
A2: There is one issue that really matters the election: Climate change! I’m the only one to have a program that’s ambitious enough to truly make a difference.
F2: While you put out a passionate plea, Scholz and especially Laschet hit you hard on some of your more unpopular proposals. Overall, Scholz is the winner of the debate.
A3: I’d like to focus on our social policies, like a higher minimum wage, higher taxes for the rich and a reform of the Hartz IV system.
F3: You and Scholz have similar positions here, allowing Laschet to get in effective attack and differentiate himself. Overall, Laschet wins the debate.
A4: Actually, screw this! I will attack them both whenever an opportunity presents itself. That way, I can sharpen my profile and show myself as the most competent candidate.
F4: You come across as unprepared and overly aggressive. This doesn’t help you at all and overall, Scholz wins the debate.
