SPD-Scholz

EQ0: August 2019: It’s more than two years until the federal election. In the European Elections of 2018, the SPD suffered disastrous losses. This prompted party chair Andrea Nahles to resign. To resolve this power vacuum, the party members are to vote for a new party leadership team. While you declined at first, as no other major politicians of your kind are running, you’ve now decided to jump in after all. The only other question is: Who will you choose as your co-candidate in this leadership race?
A1: My wife, Britta Ernst, is my best friend and closest advisor. Of course, I couldn’t run with her, but she tells me, there’s this ambitious, widely respected parliamentarian from Brandenburg, called Klara Geywitz. She’d be a loyal companion and a good choice for the party, especially in the East.
F1: Klara is stoked to run with you for leadership. She’s uncontroversial but eloquent and has a similar political pitch to yours, but with an East German flair. Minister President Dietmar Woidke of Brandenburg applauds your choice, and she gets a decent reception from your female colleagues.
A2: This race needs a cross-sectional ticket, I need a left-winger at my side. SPD eminence Gesine Schwan showed some clear interest in running, but she hasn’t found a partner yet. If I make enough concessions to her about opposing the Grand Coalition, she could be a valuable and deeply knowledgeable partner at my side.
F2: It takes you a lot of convincing, but in the end, Gesine begrudgingly accepts, seeing you as her key to reform the party. It’s considered a major twist, seeing as she originally planned to run with your adversary, Kevin Kühnert, before he declined. She’s not uncontroversial in your party though, and ruffles some feathers, partially because of your combined age.
A3: Our party needs to be the lawyer of the economically disadvantaged. Claudia Moll has impressed me with her fiery, no-nonsense attitude and her down-to-earth resumé. Together, we can redefine the SPD as a sensible, but passionate defender of the simple folk.
F3: Claudia doesn’t harbor much ambition, but she ends up accepting. Her folksy, hard-hitting profile gives her sort of a populist edge, contrasting with your stately, calm demeanor. It reinforces your message for defending classically Social Democratic values, but it’s unclear if she’s able to compliment your personality and energy.
A4: This race needs a cross-sectional ticket, I need a left-winger at my side. The parliamentary manager of the SPD in the Bundestag, Bärbel Bas, is an often overlooked but impressively experienced woman. If I promise her an earnest renewal without endangering existing leadership structures of our party, she could compliment my message well.
F4: It comes as a surprise to many, but with your vow to oppose another Grand Coalition, she accepts. You two run as an establishmentarian candidacy across party wings, Bärbel being a leading voice of the PL. Her gravitas and eloquence is sure to turn some heads, as she’s already considered a potential nominee for President of the Bundestag.

Q1: The race takes shape, as Kevin Kühnert orchestrates a leftist top candidacy, consisting of Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. With eight notable duos running, there will be a run-off deciding between the final two. You and Klara Geywitz quickly become the leading choice for the moderates inside the SPD. What approach do you take to convince the party members to vote for you?
A1: The party needs to be reinvigorated, and we need to return to our Social Democratic roots for that. We need new answers, a vision for progress and action on the issues, like climate change or the wealth gap. One can only notice how the CDU's politics lies like mildew over the republic.
F1: This surprisingly impassioned and GroKo-critically plea easily gets you into the second round. Nonetheless, your association with the coalition keeps haunting you as you narrowly lose to Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. Your course leads to tensions with the CDU, but in the end, you get to keep your job as Vice Chancellor and Finance Minister.
A2: In the last few years, the party has lost the trust of many voters. We need to win it back, which means finding Social Democratic answers to the questions of our time. For this, all wings of our party need to be unified. I stand for a confident SPD that dares to do something.
F2: With an establishmentarian, but broadly agreeable take your calm and optimistic plea reaps you a narrow plurality and entry into the second round, where you unfortunately incur a decisive loss from your left against Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. You keep your job as Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finances though.
A3: I’m the candidate in this election who stands for the continuation of the Grand coalition. There’s a lot we have achieved together, and I believe it’s in the best interest of the SPD to keep doing what we’re doing. Agreeable Policies, good compromises and a good working relationship with the CDU/CSU is needed to bring this country forward.
F3: Enveloping yourself as the candidate of the status quo, when the party is polling at its all-time low is not a winning strategy, despite praise from the CDU. You don’t even make it to the run-off, which is later won by Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. In the light of this humiliation, some call for resignation, but you keep your job regardless.
A4: I’m the incumbent Vice Chancellor and Finance Minister of Germany - none of the other candidates has my name recognition. I’ll focus less on policy specifics and trust that being the most well-known candidate will carry me to victory. I can lead this party with the dignity it deserves.
F4: This attitude alone, the “Scholzomat”, didn't seem to hit the mood of the party. With a centrist appeal, you lose in the second round of the leadership contest to Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. While some call for resignation, you keep your job as Vice Chancellor and Finance Minister, although your position in the party is weakened by this affair.

Q2: November 2019: One condition the SPD had for entering the Grand coalition was that there would be an evaluation of the government's accomplishments at half-time. The time for that is now - as Vice Chancellor, you get to make significant input and have considerable sway in the evaluation. Given how low approvals are for the government and the SPD in general, are you satisfied with the achievements of the Merkel IV administration so far?
A1: Overall, we are satisfied. We’ve finished about a third of the projects we wanted to do according to the coalition agreement and a lot more are currently on the way, like programs for stable pension levels or the “Good-Daycare-Law”. We are on a good path.
F1: An expected answer of the “Scholzomat”. This is a good framing of what you have already achieved, but many, especially from your left, question if these achievements are enough, given how your party was rarely credited with them. You better hope you can convince the electorate.
A2: We have made good progress on a lot of projects, for example expanding the Mother's pension, and definitively want to continue the coalition until the end of the term, yes. However, after the next election, the country needs a new government without CDU and CSU!
F2: A lot of people, especially in your party agree - this Grand coalition was already an emergency solution after the Jamaica coalition talks fell through. Pointing to some successes at least shows how this wasn't a fruitless endeavor. Let’s see how the next parliamentary majority will turn out - right now, the CDU/CSU is still on solid ground.
A3: Frankly, we can’t be satisfied with the last one and a half years. It’s simply not possible to pass the laws Germany needs while governing with the CDU/CSU and I don’t know if it’s a good idea to continue this coalition.
F3: Your rhetoric comes as a surprise, although as a pleasant one to the Anti-Groko-crowd. The CDU/CSU accuses you of trying to drag them down, with some even calling for your resignation. A small media frenzy ensues, and although the coalition survives, everyone’s favorabilities are impacted. Let’s hope it was worth the discord.
A4: I am completely satisfied, yes. We are good governing partners and I’m looking forward to further cooperation - perhaps also after the next election. We've enacted good legislation - and everyone wanting to exit this coalition has to ask themselves if we could enact these measures from the opposition.
F4: A fair point, but the Grand coalition is very unpopular within the party and no one - apart from you, apparently -  wants to continue it after the next election. You’ve done yourself no favor by coming out for it so strongly. In fact, some party insiders now doubt you as a standard bearer for the next election.

EQ1: What was still considered a harmless chinese phenomenon at the end of 2019, has developed into the worldwide Covid 19 pandemic in 2020. The government’s response, including state-coordinated lockdowns and mask mandates has, so far, been sensible and popular, with the CDU experiencing a polling bump as a result. As Vice Chancellor and MInister of Finance, your own political actions are of grave consequence. What actions do you pursue during Covid?
A1: We need a precise strategy concerning the financing of our appropriate measures. This includes modifying the debt ceiling in this crisis, and taking on new loans. We need to take out the “bazooka” to provide for generous relief to ailing businesses and institutions.
F1: Your usage of the financial “bazooka” quickly becomes a favorite term of the media. Your decisive action gives you favorable coverage, shooting your favorability up into the positives, along with other government officials. Your reputation as a capable leader grows.
A2: Although we do need relief, we also need to be careful and measured. The Schwarze Null stands, and we need to avoid going too deep into debt, so that we can bounce back stronger after the pandemic.
F2: Your stinginess at the onset of the pandemic certainly does not make for good headlines. You do give out more relief eventually, as the sheer scope of Corona becomes clear, but your favorability does not experience a bounce, compared to other crisis managers.
A3: People clap for our nurses and doctors who work tirelessly to combat this pandemic. However, I want to do more: we need to have better job security, reliable services and higher wages for our medical workers. That’s what I will fight for in this administration.
F3: These are some good ideas, but since you’re Minister of Finances and not Minister of Labor, and especially not chancellor (yet), your proposals go nowhere except the party platform. It’s good to position yourself for the election, but in these dark times, people prefer to see action.
A4: We need to especially allocate a lot more funds for scientific progress on the vaccine. By testing efficiently we can alleviate this pandemic, but it will only be solved once a vaccine is available. Significant funding has to be accrued to that end.
F4: Your efforts show success, as in the fall of 2020, the German company Biontech develops a working vaccine against Covid. You are partially credited with this breakthrough, but whilst you may have saved countless lives, the efforts were not as noticeable to the public as the economic impacts of this crisis have been.

Normal Option, the nomination becomes harder if answer 4 was chosen on Q1 and Q2.
Q3: July 2020: It’s more than a year until the federal election, though there are talks that the SPD already wants to nominate a chancellor candidate. You and Rolf Mützenich, the leader of the parliamentary group, are the names mentioned most often. The party leadership has invited you to talk to them - how do you want to convince them that you are the right person?
A1: I see the writing on the wall -  I lost the leadership election to two politicians that were perceived as more ambitious than me. Therefore, I’ll promise to run a decidedly left-wing campaign when nominated as chancellor candidate - back to the roots of the Good Old SPD. We need to move on from Agenda 2010-politics.
F1: With your newfound stance, there is little debate between Norbert and Saskia. You are the most reliable candidate to lead the SPD into the election this fall - even Kevin Kühnert comes out in support. Hopefully, this position doesn’t clash with your previous image too much, whilst taking the wind out of the insurgent Green’s sails. Glück auf, Genosse!
A2: They know who I am and what I stand for. While I recognize that the left wing of the party is a significant force, I am in the unique position of passing reliable and pragmatic Social Democratic policies whilst taking on the role of Merkel’s successor with my persona. That way, we can deliver a convincing win for our party!
F2: While there is some pearl clutching in the left wing, especially by Kevin Kühnert, eventually, you are chosen as the nominee. Your relationship with the party leadership is cordial, and you are now free to run a campaign that’s in tune with your persona. Glück auf, Genosse!
A3:  I’m the most electable candidate. Without me, the situation for the SPD will be even more hopeless than it already is. We want to have a chance at leading the new government, and I am the preferred candidate of German voters, no matter if I lost the leadership contest.
F3: Norbert and Saskia aren’t particularly thrilled about nominating you, but the argument is persuasive: who else, if not you? Let’s hope you can repay the trust they placed in you by subverting expectations next year, to not be relegated to the backbench like Martin Schulz. Glück auf, Genosse!
A4: It was already a mistake by the party to not choose me as leader. I’m the Vice Chancellor, I deserve this candidacy, and if they think someone else in this party can be a better chancellor candidate, they are sorely mistaken.
F4: Unfortunately for you, the party seems to want a break from the policies of the past and is not swayed by your aggressive stance. You come off as a bad loser. In an unlikely twist, party group leader Rolf Mützenich is chosen as the chancellor candidate for the SPD.

Q4: August 2020: Perhaps Saskia said it best when she called this an “unexpected turn”. Despite losing the race for SPD leadership, the party has just nominated you as their chancellor candidate. While it will be a while since the campaign gets going for real, the position of the SPD in polls is a disastrous third place. Even the party is doubtful that this is winnable, much so the press. What will your strategy be to prove them wrong over the coming months?
A1: I lost the leadership election because the left wing of the party was suspicious of me. In the coming months, I want to earn their trust and promise to lead the SPD on a more progressive course than Merkel. Our Welfare State is a democratic achievement, and it’s always the SPD who’s keeping it up to modern standards.
F1: This is good for party unity, and your outreach to the left wing also improves your relationship with party leadership. It isn’t quite consistent with how you presented yourself in the past though - keep in mind, Merkel's style is still seemingly popular with voters.
A2: My biggest asset is my competent persona. I don’t want to get into policy specifics right now, instead, I want to present myself as a capable leader, in my role as Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finances. I am happy about the nomination, and I want to win.
F2: You are personally popular with German voters, and you are consistently ranked as a competent minister. Let’s hope it’s enough for people to pull the trigger for your party as well, remember, this is a parliamentary election, not a presidential one.
A3: Many things will be different than they’re currently prognosticated. I’ve always been part of the party's moderate wing, and this is not something I’m going to hide. I want to emulate the strategy of a grand Social Democrat, Gerhard Schröder. Only a pragmatic big-tent-course will lead us to victory next year.
F3: In the last few elections, the SPD chancellor candidates all came from the moderate wing of the party and all lost, including Schröder in 2005. The left wing was already unhappy with your nomination, and with you confirming their fears, they are close to open revolt against you. Expect the bleeding in the Greens favor to continue.
A4: We are far behind in the polls right now, and the only way to make up this difference is by running an aggressive campaign. I’ll go on the attack against the incompetence of the CDU and the Greens’ elitism. Only the SPD is for those who agree that everyone deserves the same respect.
F4: It’s not election season yet and the country is in the middle of the Covid-pandemic. Your attacks are seen as unnecessary, out of character, and do more to damage your image than drag the other parties down - especially your attack on the ascendant Greens seems out of touch. The public would rather see you focus on your current job.

Q5: One topic that has been part of the political discourse over the last years is the minimum wage, which was introduced in 2015. Currently, it is 9.35€, with a non-political commission deciding when it will be adjusted. Do you want to promise changes for the election?
A1: The minimum wage is not high enough for the hard-working people in this country. It has to be raised to 14€. Anything less is simply not enough to fully participate in our society - good wages are a sign of respect, and that’s what my campaign is about.
F1: Good reasoning, and you’re really turning heads from low income workers - but with this proposal, you are outflanking even the Left party. It helps you in your reputation with leftists, but moderates fear a downturn in business.
A2: I want to organize a salary increase for ten Million fellow citizens. That’s why we propose to raise it to 12€, which would help low-income earners significantly - this is a red line for any government I would participate in.
F2: Your position is in tune with what the party expected - it helps you rally all voters who might be receptive to you. Insisting on this could be a hurdle in coalition talks, though.
A3: The minimum wage commission has been doing a good job in the past, and it would not be right to say a number here just to win votes. The system is fundamentally sound, striking a balance between economic viability and providing a hard floor for wages.
F3: This is too unambitious for your party to accept, which puts a pledge to raise the minimum wage to 12€ in the program regardless of what you said. Such a high-profile disagreement between the party and its chancellor candidate isn’t good, of course.
A4: The minimum wage has to be raised by more than the commission would. I don’t want to give a number here - the exact number depends on a lot of factors, so it’s just more honest to decide later. But it has to be more than right now.
F4: Your analysis might be right, but the fact is, a specific number is just better for an election campaign. The party votes for a raise to 12€  regardless, making this moot, but your caution didn’t help you in this case.

Q6: March 2021: During the winter, the country was gripped by the Covid pandemic and strict lockdowns were mandated. Now, the country is slowly starting to open up. You can either voice your opinion on the openings or focus more on your role as Finance Minister during this time.
A1: During the winter, the lockdowns were needed, and while we have to be careful not to open up too quickly, our opening strategy and vaccination campaign should make it possible for people to go to beer gardens in the summer.
F1: Many people have had enough of lockdowns and like this promise - except for people like Karl Lauterbach, who are still vehemently warning against a lax stance, as espoused by your opponent, Armin Laschet, in NRW. Meanwhile, the Greens are enjoying a surge, though largely at the expense of the CDU/CSU.
A2: I want to use this as an opportunity to attack Laschet, the party leader of the CDU. His proposed “bridge lockdown” is confusing and goes against what the rest of the states are doing. The propositions agreed upon at the Federal-State-conference should be complied with by everyone.
F2: Many agree that he didn’t handle the pandemic in a good way in the past few weeks, especially your highly regarded colleague Karl Lauterbach. Markus Söder publicly complains about your “smurfy grin” during this comment, but people kinda like a bit of humanity in you. Meanwhile, the Greens are enjoying a surge, though largely at the expense of the CDU/CSU.
A3: As Finance Minister, I have been responsible for the help our economy received during these difficult times. Now, I will call for additional financial help for people affected by the lockdowns. The culture industry - museums, theaters, cinemas and the like - especially need urgent help.
F3: Your measures as Finance Minister have generally been popular during the crisis, although many people are still in difficult economic situations. Alleviating that could be a recipe for future success. Meanwhile, the Greens are enjoying a surge, though largely at the expense of the CDU/CSU.
A4: It’s fiscally irresponsible to give out even more government aid than we already have. I’m worried about the national debt and inflation down the line - the aid we have already given out is enough. The Schwarze Null is the law of the land.
F4: This is a good conservative answer that demotivates your base. <br> Financial aid was popular, and there aren’t many people worried about fiscal stability at this moment. You get viciously attacked for this position, mainly by the Left and Green Parties, who are enjoying a surge in the polls.

EQ2: You’re invited to a talk show about immigration and refugees. Although tempers have cooled a bit since 2015, the discussion around Merkel's decision to welcome the refugees 6 years ago is still relevant - particularly for the AfD, who got driven into parliament on this issue in 2017. Germany is still a popular destination for many foreigners seeking a better life, yet the nation does not seem prepared for this. What stance do you take in this debate?
A1: I supported Merkel's decision at the time, we needed to take those people in to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe at the Austrian-Hungarian border. Today though, we need to be more mindful of European border security. To that end, we want to strengthen the EU border enforcement agency Frontex.
F1: This is a cautious, but acceptable answer. Whilst nodding to both sides can keep old-school blue collar workers from bolting, you do seem to disavow progressive ideas of multiculturalism. That said, maybe you don’t need to encroach on the Green’s territory too much.
A2: There’s no way around it - Germany is an immigration country. We need a comprehensive overhaul of our immigration laws - we don’t have a good system in place to attract qualified immigrants, who could be advantageous to our economy and demographic situation.
F2: This position doesn’t aggravate critics of Merkel’s way on either side, satisfies your base and shows you’re taking modern positions that could solve real problems. It is very evocative of FDP rhetoric, but that doesn’t have to be a bad thing.
A3: Merkel was absolutely right to take in these people, we say: Refugees Welcome! As a western country partially responsible for colonialism, we have a responsibility for humanitarian aid, including initiatives to rescue capsized refugee boats in the mediterranean.
F3: A strong principled stance, satisfying your youth wing, but it is a gamble if the median German voter agrees as well. You risk alienating even more working class voters, who might defect to the AfD - you’re gonna have to make up for them.
A4: On this issue, Merkel has erred - her rhetoric was dangerous in provoking even more refugees and immigrants to come here. We simply can’t take everyone. We need more border security in the EU and faster deportation processes to avoid another disaster - 2015 can’t repeat itself.
F4: There is a certain trend for some European Social Democrats to disavow multiculturalism in favor of a more nationalized welfare state. The Danish Socialdemokratiet have followed this line to electoral success - but in Germany, many of your leftist supporters are disappointed, and start to rebel in favor of Baerbock over your nationalistic dogwhistle.

Q7: Soon, the election campaign is going to begin properly. The CDU lost some support due to some of their MPs selling overpriced medical masks, but unfortunately, the SPD barely profited from that. In order to change that, up until now, you’ve leaned into a moderate image, evocative of the “Seeheimer”-wing of the party. Party leadership and the Jusos are peeved off about your - is this something you want to continue?
A1: Frankly, I disavow any talk of „socialism“ and the likes. We need results, and to gain them, we need to work from within the system, with reforms where they are necessary. There's no „left“ or „right“ economic policy, there's only the correct economic policy! As Helmut Schmidt succinctly put it: “He who has visions should go to the doctor”.
F1: This is a very harsh tone towards the left wing of your party, and it's sharply rebuked by Saskia, Norbert and Kevin, as well as countless other young, reformist Social Democrats and Socialists in your party. Schröder nowadays is more unpopular than popular, and this continued intra-party bickering makes many people squeamish about ever supporting the SPD again.
A2: We can't let the accomplishments of our party be talked down in our coalition under Angela Merkel. We want to govern, and we will continue to govern. There's lots to be done, and we want to prove our responsibility to the German citizen. That said, we do need to move beyond this arrangement, and I will extend a hand to party leadership to make sure every voice is heard.
F2: Defending the Grand Coalition is a dangerous game, but people do value good governance over ideology nowadays. Party leadership, whilst staying mildly skeptical, plays along for now. As long as you enact the leftist party platform in the end, you're free to run your campaign however you want. Stay on the lookout for angry Jusos though…
A3: I do believe that good governance is our primary task as politicians. That said, I do see the merit of the criticism from the left of our party, after all, I did lose to Norbert and Saskia due to this trend. To keep our party united, I am going to stand steadfast by our progressive platform, whilst utilizing my stately demeanor.
F3: Norbert and Saskia appreciate your candor, and while some do notice a certain pivot after public criticisms from the leftist ranks, you do seem to get the best out of both worlds with this one. Your calm, rational demeanor fits you nicely, while your honest loyalty to Social Democratic policies keeps the party united for this election.

EQ3: One salient issue is the topic of pensions, particularly in light of Germany's changing demographics. Currently, pensions are distributed from a fund financed by the current working populace. However, because the number of retirees seems to grow faster than the workforce, the system is thought to be unsustainable. How do you want to address this problem?
A1: The heart of this problem lies in Germany's low birth rates. We need to further encourage the founding of families, with benefits for married and childbearing couples. Family-friendly policies will strengthen our social cohesion and collective values and invest in our future.
F1: This is a surprisingly conservative answer that disappoints many in your camp. While this has been the government's line for years, you come off as quite passive and unambitious. Your colleagues go much further than you in several statements, advocating for government intervention, furthering the narrative that you don't fit your party.
A2: A sustainable answer to keep our social support net afloat lies in immigration. We are an attractive place in Europe for many seeking a safe and economically secure future, and we should finally implement a real immigration law, for example with a Canada-style point-system.
F2: A modern answer that many voters left-of-center can agree to, although some see it taken straight from the FDP's playbook – you do eschew the topic of government intervention. Keep note though, your old working class base is frightened by the prospect of more immigrants: the AfD immediately starts churning it's fear mongering social media machine.
A3: It's clear that the current system is unsafe. We should build on our public pension system, reform the Riester-system, and refrain from raising the pension age any further than 67! We also need to introduce a higher state-provided minimum pension to fight old-age poverty.
F3: This is a good social-democratic answer that will motivate your base. There has been a lot of worry among older <i>Genossen</i> and the Jusos concerning this issue, and this is a welcome return to classic SPD doctrine for them. It’s met with the usual conservative critiques, but maybe strengthening your profile is worth it.
A4: We need to overhaul the bureaucratic costs of the system and listen to the decisions of the advisory councils. The mix of public, occupational and private pension systems contributes to safe pension levels, particularly occupational and private provisions should be strengthened. We can also look at Swedish-style stock-based pension funds.
F4: You seem to gamble on a somewhat Neoliberal take on this issue. While this is a pragmatic course that could offer technocratic solutions to every corner regardless of ideology, your base is quite uneasy at your refusal to commit to not raising the retirement age – and note how Baerbock seems much more ambitious.

Q8: April 2021: In 2020, the financial payment provider Wirecard went bankrupt after massive fraud was discovered. There are allegations that a government agency that is under your responsibility as Finance Minister did a bad job and should have intervened earlier. Today, you have to talk to a parliamentary committee of inquiry about your role in this affair.
A1: I will fight back hard against the allegations today. It’s a complete fairytale that the Finance Ministry protected Wirecard. We did our job just fine, no one could have foreseen this massive fraud.
F1: This one time, raising your voice to fight back seemed like the right call - the party stands by you. Let’s hope the committee doesn’t find anything compromising. There’s an open question about some emails you sent from a private address… it’s always the emails, isn’t it.
A2: We need to get to the bottom of this together - I promise to fully cooperate with the committee and turn over any E-Mails I might have missed in the past. Still, I maintain that the Finance Ministry is not to blame here.
F2: You are praised for your transparency and cooperation, though some parties are still very critical of your role in this. Let’s just hope that you didn’t make it easier for the committee to find problems with your account by being so open and lax about everything.
A3: Deflect as much as possible! I will give nothing but the shortest possible answers and if they ask about specifics, I’ll say that I don’t remember anything.
F3: Aha - classic political dementia! Well, you seem to know your stuff, as you do keep the headlines from mentioning you too often. Parts of the committee accuse you of obstructing their work - let’s hope they don’t find anything incriminating. There are some open questions about an email you send from a private address…
A4: Many people had their part in this unfortunate affair, and part of the fault lies with the behavior of the Ministry of FInances. I’m sorry that this happened under my watch and promise to help investigate how it came this far.
F4: What are you doing? The committee had no proof that you were responsible - now you’ve given them every ammunition to pursue you. Maybe transparency will at least positively reflect in the end report. Your moral high ground however sn’t reflected in the drop of your favorability numbers - hopefully, that’s temporary.

Q9: After a bruising battle for the nomination between CDU leader Armin Laschet and CSU leader Markus Söder, the former has prevailed. Meanwhile, in a much smoother and often praised fashion, the Green Party selected Annalena Baerbock as their first chancellor candidate. Both of them are way ahead of you in the polls - what’s your strategy regarding your opponents in this novelty three-way-race?
A1: Let’s be honest, neither of them should become chancellor. Laschet simply doesn’t have the temperament to lead the country, while Baerbock is inexperienced. Both lost the nomination to much more popular individuals. I’m a more capable leader - and I need to be forceful to prove that.
F1: Voters tend to agree  - polls show, they’d vote for you if they could directly elect the chancellor. Sadly, they can’t, and many aren’t convinced of your party just yet. An aggressive style runs the danger of poisoning the political discourse, possibly benefiting extremists. You do gain a bit, but Baerbock is still the main alternative against the embarrassing Laschet.
A2: This is a good opportunity to go on the attack. Specifically, I want to call out Laschet - not even his own party is fully behind him and his recent Covid strategy in North Rhine-Westphalia was embarrassing.
F2: These are some stinging attacks, but not without merit, as Laschet’s popularity does seem to take a hit. Unfortunately, it’s unclear if you can really benefit from it - Baerbock surge seems unstoppable right now, and she is regarded as his main opponent.
A3: This is a good opportunity to go on the attack. Although indirectly, I want to criticize Baerbock. This country needs a steady hand, and not someone unproven and untested in executive experience.
F3: A lot of voters want change and a breath of fresh air - but also steady and reliable leadership, as evidenced by Merkel's approval numbers. Maybe some Green voters can return to the fray… centrists also appreciate an alternative on the left who is less woke. Despite your attacks, Baerbock keeps surging after her nomination.
A4: Let’s not mince any words - I’m not an attack dog, neither do I want to be one. I will congratulate both of them on getting nominated. I’m looking forward to a fair election campaign between the three of us!
F4: Taking the high road is always a prudent choice. Some people make fun of you for calling this a three-way race, but your opponents return the courtesy of trying to keep the campaign clean. To close the gap, you should probably be a bit more forceful though - Baerbock keeps surging, at the expense of Laschet.

Q10: A topic that comes up from time to time during this election season is the relationship with both Nato and Russia. Historically, the SPD has always been somewhat dovish, although not veering from the mainstream. Except for one - Gerhard Schröder, former Social Democratic chancellor, is repeatedly criticized for his close ties to Vladimir Putin. Do you have anything to say about this?
A1: All I can say is, the SPD is committed to NATO, which guarantees the security of Europe. We also want to strengthen our cooperation with other European countries in military matters, especially France. At the end of that process, we can imagine a European army.
F1: Pundits notice your silence on both Russia and the former chancellor. While your statement goes over well, especially with avowed pro-Europeans, the Greens seem to slowly edge rightwards of your stance.
A2: Schröder is no active politician anymore and is free to do whatever he wants to. We are committed to a strong alliance, but we also have business interests regarding Russia - for example, the Nord-Stream 2 pipeline that will open next year and is very important for our energy supply.
F2:  East German state parties like this stance, though for some others, this is too friendly towards Russia. Nord-Stream 2 is loudly criticized by the Greens - they have seemingly moved rightward. As criticism of Putin steadily increases since 2014, don’t die on that hill. Either way, for now, Foreign Policy isn’t that big of an issue.
A3: The SPD has always been the party in favor of easing tensions with the East. We need a new “Neue Ostpolitik”. We want to keep talking to Putin, and former chancellor Schröder could help us with his good connections.
F3: While not entirely out of character for a Social Democrat, this statement still makes you sound very Russia-friendly. You get roundly criticized for not taking the Putin-danger seriously, being called a <i>Putinversteher</i>. The newfound hawks in the Greens retort; “Willy Brandt would turn around in his grave”.
A4: Our current policy towards Russia has not been tough enough. Schröder should either cut ties with Russia or leave the SPD. Putin cannot be trusted and we should only open Nord-Stream 2 if we get more concessions from him.
F4: Some in your party are, frankly, pissed off by Schröder and agree with you - but the SPD has always been historically anti-war and more in favor of dialogue with Russia. The state party of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern - where Nord-Stream 2 ends - is openly disagreeing with you. At least several Baltic politicians praise you on social media.

Q11: May 2021: Another shock for the Grand Coalition: The Federal Constitutional Court just ruled the standing Climate Protection Act unconstitutional and demands the government do more to lower emissions. The cabinet now has to go to work on making the law stricter. Minister of the Environment Svenja Schulze invites you to co-sponsor the initiative for the new bill, as incumbent Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finances.
A1: We should quickly devise a new Climate Protection Act that is ambitious, yet feasible - for example, being carbon neutral by 2045 should be the goal. It should be written in a way that makes it easy to pass for both Union-parties and the SPD. If we don’t act fast, we’re gambling away our future.
F1: The new law passes quickly and without problems. You’ve averted any major outcries and flex your administrative muscles as one of the initiators of the new bill. The Greens criticize it for being vague and unambitious, but you’ve made due with what you have; the CDU is still in government for now, after all.
A2: We can now quickly correct the mistakes we made when writing the original version of this law. Back then, the Union-parties stopped exactly the things that had to be in the law according to the court ruling. Another CDU-led government wouldn’t just miss the climate goals, but also endanger Germany’s prosperity and economic success.
F2: You’re putting the CDU in a difficult spot here - they can’t really challenge you on that critique. They’re forced to act nonetheless, and a new climate protection law is devised quickly. When the new version is passed, the SPD gets most of the credit.
A3: This is a great opportunity to pass a truly ambitious law that does enough to combat climate change. We need to stake out carbon neutrality by 2040 - now is not the time for slowing down. We have to have generational justice, planning security and climate action that’s not throttling our economy, but rebuilding and modernizing it.
F3: You get cheers from the Green Party, but the bickering between the chancellor, you, Svenja Schulze and Minister of the Economy Peter Altmaier slows down progress on the bill. After much back and forth, a watered-down version of your proposal is passed - too late to make a splash.
A4: The court mandated that the law is to be changed by the end of 2022. We should wait until after the election, this is a job better suited for the new government.
F4: Both the CDU and Svenja Schulze disagree, wanting to clean this mess up as quickly as possible. Your unambitious attitude mobilizes environmentalists all across the country in opposition to your comments - consolidating the Greens’ base, with Baerbock joining the chorus from the opposition.

Q12: You’ve been invited to a talk show about future tax policies, a speciality of yours, being Minister of Finances. Another important topic is that of the “Schwarze Null”, and its mandate of a debt-free balanced budget. The Left, the Greens and your party are calling for more investments, paid for by taxing the rich and taking on debt, while the parties on the economical right are more fiscally conservative. How do you want to frame your position?
A1: There need to be some corrections with our taxation system - I think it’s correct if people with a higher income, such as myself, paid more taxes, raising the cap to 45% for the upper 4%. Meanwhile, 96% of taxpayers will experience reductions. Massive reductions for corporations, like the Union is demanding, are unacceptable, looking at our debt.
F1: Questions like these are truly up your alley. Although people aren’t exactly listening to your numbers, your answer is a well-rounded one that appeals to the broader masses. Proposals like these might extend your personal popularity to the image of your party as a whole.
A2: The tax burden in this country is too high, it’s hurting our hard-working population. The Soli should be abolished, and other taxes for the middle classes be cut, whilst raising the minimum wage. Through better wages and higher purchasing power, we can rebuild this economy without endangering the Schwarze Null.
F2: This pivot seems like a sensible, centrist proposal, which could win over some CDU/CSU and even FDP voters. That said, you’re relentlessly attacked from your left, not just by Baerbock, but also inside your own party - they are tired of small-step-reforms, they yearn for change in the economic consensus.
A3: We need a global tax reform for internationally active corporations. It has to happen this summer, at the G20 meeting, especially with the new US Secretary of the Treasury Janet Yellen. This includes a global minimal tax on corporations and a digital tax to target Amazon, Google and others.
F3: This is quite a wonky policy, praised by keynesian economists around the world, and your efforts here could really bear fruit. That said, in the context of this talk show, you dodge most questions about grander plans to finance the SPD’s proposals - average voters care about what they need to pay, less about your international escapades. Your record improves, at least.
A4: We can not waive away new investments or cut benefits. Higher taxes for very high-income earners, adjustments on inheritance taxes, a wealth tax as well as higher investments through taking on debts are all needed to invest in our future. We are living in a crisis without precedent, and what we need now is solidarity.
F4: This assortment of politics riles up your base and revives the promise of “democratic socialism” for the left wing of your party. Going big and even outflanking the Greens here could stop their momentum, but it also opens you up to significant attacks from fiscal conservatives.

Q13: Digitalization is an important topic in this election, with all parties unveiling plans for how to move forward with this. What is the plan of the SPD?
A1: Even though Covid might be over, we have to continue our progress with digital infrastructures at schools, which we started with the ‘digital pact’. While there shouldn’t be a whole week of online lessons, frequent digital learning can help to prepare young people for a life in which digital communication plays a big, big role.
F1: This is a good, targeted appeal to parents, teachers and the youth. Digital education is an all time favorite talking point - just be ready for some uncomfortable questions about who’s at fault for the current state of affairs. Promising continuity here is risky.
A2: The state of digitalization in Germany is seriously embarrassing. Our politics have to act stronger, clearer and more demanding than before. I want a “Gigabit-society” - every corporation, every craftsman, every farmer and every private household has to have an internet connection of at least one Gigabit per second until 2030.
F2: Germany is far behind in providing for fast and reliable internet connections, or even cellphone reception in rural areas. Such a steadfast promise with a concise deadline is broadly popular and keeps you in contention on this topic with the voter groups you have to win.
A3: We want to look at this from the perspective of workers and employees. Digital transformation is tied to the right to educate yourself. The biggest fear for people is that their qualifications aren’t enough for this new, demanding time. We have to give those people security, by ensuring digital education at every stage of life.
F3: The classic “lawyer of the little people”. A targeted appeal at the anxieties of the working class is quite popular and follows classic Social Democratic doctrine, but most people are concerned about their own internet connections at home.
A4: Germany’s bureaucracy is sluggish, and if we don’t meet the moment to change that now, it’ll pass. In this crisis, we have seen the necessity of a digital administration, especially looking at things like the development of new technologies like the vaccine - in partnerships between the state and private companies.
F4: An expected answer, not a bad one - improving bureaucratic processes to drive innovation is broadly popular. However, most parties call for something like this, and this framing of your platform does not generate a lot of attention. The FDP meanwhile drives their strategy on this issue in particular.

Q14: June 2021: The parliamentary commission investigating the Wirecard-scandal has finished its job and created a report. Reading it, you are not directly implicated, and how much you personally are to blame depends mostly on the party of the person asked. Nonetheless, the chatter about your involvement continues. Do you want to participate in the debate about this in parliament?
A1: No. Let the Union criticize me, other members of my party can defend me just fine. I’ll wait this out, patiently.
F1: The attacks by the Union are relentless, although to many people, they seem partisan, especially during this campaign. The Wirecard affair remains a thorn in your side, but doesn’t dominate the headlines. You’re not the only one struggling right now - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and unreported earnings.
A2: It’s obvious that these attacks on me are nothing but a cheap political ploy. There’s no clear evidence of any wrongdoing by me and I will fight back passionately against these allegations!
F2: When you aren’t holding back, you can be surprisingly impassioned. That said, to the public, you still seem defensive, and somewhat suspicious. At least you’re not the only one struggling right now - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and unreported earnings.
A3: Some of these people are calling for my resignation, so something has to give. Jörg Kukies, the State Secretary serving under me in the Finance Ministry, unfortunately has to resign. Maybe that can calm down their moods.
F3: Many are struggling to understand this move - Kukies was a close advisor to you, and by firing him you only seem to admit that your ministry did something wrong. At least you’re not the only one struggling right now - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and some payments.

EQ4: One of the more salient issues in the current political landscape across the western world is the question of rents, particularly for younger voters. Most economic and educational opportunities increasingly lie in the big cities of the country - where rent is constantly increasing, to the point where it becomes a serious political question. What is your answer to the housing question?
A1: We need to alleviate the housing market by building more. We need to build more than 100.000 housing units, using tax benefits. We should also provide funding to revitalize our cities and villages, advertise rural spaces and reduce the real estate transfer tax - every family should be able to own a home.
F1: This is quite a cautious answer that’s in line with what you’ve done in Hamburg and at your current job, but the left wing of the party isn’t on board with more half-measured GroKo-politics. ‘Building more’ resonates with rural families, but many renters in the cities, especially the youth, resent your lax stance. The Jusos demand for more action.
A2: We need to emphasize the creation of more social housing, built by modern standards, available for those who need it most. For families, we can make buying empty buildings in the countryside easier for young people, as they do in NRW. Furthermore, we need to fight land speculation and close tax loopholes.
F2: This is a good, realistic plan to deal with the crisis - the NRW project was even introduced by your state party. Leftists are a bit peeved that you won’t take a harder stance; you’re still using the logic of supply and demand after all, but harsher plans like rent controls could be unconstitutional, as ruled in Berlin recently.
A3: The situation is tense. It’s clear that action is needed in the form of rent controls. A sharper, unlimited federal rent control program should be introduced. In places where the situation is very problematic, we stand for a so-called ‘rent moratorium’, where rent would only be able to increase with the inflation rate.
F3: Ambitious, aren’t we? Your strong pitch energizes all voters sympathetic to Social Democracy, particularly those in urban hotspots. Keep in mind though that a similar plan by your state party in Berlin has been ruled unconstitutional recently, so tread lightly if you actually want to deliver.
A4: Apartments are people's homes, not investments. We can’t afford half measures: we need a federal rent freeze in regions where the capitalist market failed, lower existing costs, if necessary with expropriations. We need new social housing units and the renovation of old buildings - we can even look at legalizing squatting, if it serves the reappropriation of misused spaces.
F4: “<i>Genosse Olaf - Is the Revolutionary back?</i>” the yellow press asks - accompanying it, a certain picture of 26 year old, curly-haired marxist Olaf Scholz. Your conservative opponents deride reappropriations as wildly unconstitutional, and while your urban chapters appreciate your stance, homeowners are frightened.

Q15: Since 2005, long-time unemployed people in Germany get money from the state at the subsistence level, the so-called Hartz IV. However, they receive sanctions if they are not actively looking for a job. Many people are unhappy with this system, especially the left. With the SPD being the one who introduced this under chancellor Schröder, this has had a major impact on their neoliberal reputation. Do you want to change that?
A1: Hartz IV has to be replaced by a grand reform we call ‘Citizens Money’. The system will be recentered around consequent help and motivation for the long-term unemployed, with senseless and undignified sanctions abolished, flanked by other proposals like the guaranteed child allowance.
F1: Finally: the SPD is ready to move on from the Hartz IV system. This has been a red line for many leftist voters, who might give a second look to you now. They might still be peeved about a lack of concrete numbers, but overall, the party platform on social services is its most progressive since the start of the millennium.
A2: This is about respect: the whole system needs to be reformed from the ground up. All sanctions for the long-term unemployed have to be consequently abolished, bureaucracy has to be reduced, and there needs to be a raise in services: I promise at least 100€ more paid out, per person, per month.
F2: Finally: the SPD is ready to move on from the Hartz IV system. This has been a red line for many leftist voters, who might give a second look to you now. That said, this is a very high number - it immediately draws fire from Laschet, accusing you of ‘promoting laziness’, and even conservative elements of your own party come out against this ambitious plan.
A3: The SPD created the Hartz IV system, and while there are some parts of it that should be tweaked, we stand by the core principles of this job market reform. There should be a one-time payment to help them get through this difficult Covid time though.
F3: It’s true that the system was created by your party, but it’s increasingly unpopular both within the party and with voters in general. A one-time payment is not the change people are looking for - and the Greens really seem to increase their social policy-chops.
A4: We need to modernize the whole system. Financed by a more just tax system, I advocate for a Universal Basic Income in Germany. Such a system would be fairer, lead to less bureaucracy and would guarantee a basic protection from poverty, for the old and young.
F4: While there are those who believe a Universal Basic Income is an interesting idea, largely, the idea is still at the fringes. You do raise attention and pick up a few advocates from smaller parties, but overall, this push is largely perceived as eccentric.

Q16: July 2021: Catastrophe hits. The meteorological low-pressure area <i>Bernd</i> has hit Central Europe and made several rivers burst over their banks. Disastrous rain and floods are affecting large areas of Germany. Other politicians, like Laschet, are traveling to the affected areas. In your current role, do you see it as appropriate to go as well?
A1: What a travesty. But no, I don’t want to be seen as politicizing this catastrophe. Instead, I want to focus on my role as Finance Minister and promise quick, unbureaucratic financial aid to the affected regions - the Federal government has to step in.
F1: Some people wish for more leadership, but your candor is seen as appropriate. You have the most credibility when talking specifics about financial compensations and aid. Furthermore, Laschet is pictured boyishly laughing when visiting the affected areas, while Baerbock, still reeling from a plagiarism scandal, is nowhere to be seen. Many voters are starting to give you a second look…
A2: Yes, yes, I need to go there as a representative of the Federal Government, and talk to the affected people. However, let’s not try to capitalize off of this tragedy too much so no cameras, no journalists, I’m not doing this for the media attention.
F2: Since you are the Vice Chancellor, many people expected to see and hear more of you, but the local people appreciate your visits. Meanwhile, Laschet is pictured boyishly laughing while visiting the affected areas and Baerbock, still reeling from a plagiarism scandal, is nowhere to be seen. Many voters are starting to give you a second look…
A3: Yes, this is our big break. Laschet is a bad crisis manager, and Baerbock has no political instinct. As Vice Chancellor, I will travel to the affected areas and promise them federal, financial help. The government will help to fix the problems that can be fixed with money, as much as is needed.
F3: Your visit goes flawlessly - the prepared statement goes over very well, you seem stately and empathetic. Laschet is pictured boyishly laughing while visiting the affected areas and Baerbock, still reeling from a plagiarism scandal, is nowhere to be seen. Many voters are starting to give you a second look…
A4: Just visiting these areas is not enough! I have to get in there with the rescue teams. I want to be seen as a man of action, with rubber boots, and shovels and all. Get me some cameras, and some impactful photos with the local fire departments.
F4: Some mock your imitation of Schröder in 2002 and accuse you of doing this for publicity, while others are more appreciative. It’s unclear how well this new bombast works for you… Meanwhile, Laschet is pictured boyishly laughing while visiting the affected areas and Baerbock, still reeling from a plagiarism scandal, is nowhere to be seen.

Q17: Post-flood cleanup operations are going on as the full devastation of the flooding becomes clear: 220 fatalities, 186 of those in Germany, the deadliest flood since 1962.<br> In the wake of the catastrophe, some of the discourse has returned to man made climate change and its effects. Do you want to involve yourself here?
A1: There’s no doubt that man-made climate change has something to do with this catastrophe. This needs to be a motivation to do even more to combat climate change. For us, it’s clear - an exit from coal until 2038, climate neutrality until 2050 and climate policies that fairly distribute the burden to alleviate the lower and middle class.
F1: This is pretty much what’s to be expected of you. That said, Baerbock does have more chops on this topic than you do - involving yourself here with standard campaign rethoric might just reorient voters towards the Greens’ favorite topic.
A2: It’s clear that climate change has had something to do with this. But let’s just fly under the radar - we don’t need to outmaneuver the Greens. Right now, helping the affected people and getting them the financial aid they need has a higher priority for me as Minister of Finances.
F2: It might be baffling, but as Laschet and Baerbock bog themselves down in another fight over climate policies, your numbers just keep rising and rising. People seem to like your patient, moderate style and your focus on doing your job instead of campaign rhetoric. Polls show you overtaking both candidates in direct personal matchups.
A3: It’s clear that we need a way more ambitious climate program. We now need a higher price for CO² and stricter emission targets, alongside an earlier exit from coal and measures to protect people from disasters like this. I am going to introduce these at the next cabinet meeting, in another round of policy proposals with Svenja Schulze.
F3: Unfortunately, the CDU/CSU outright reject your stricter proposals, and your efforts go to waste. You do publicly pivot on climate policies though - while it might blunt any Green criticism, other voters of yours are unnerved. Will they be able to afford the energy prices, will they keep their jobs? Has the SPD abandoned the working class once and for all?
A4: Laschet said that because of a day like this, you don’t change politics, and I have to agree. While we have to evaluate if there’s anything we need to do, let’s not make hasty, emotionally charged decisions.
F4: Laschet is not only your opponent, he was widely criticized for his statement. Now, the criticism wraps around to you as well, blunting any momentum you might've had from your crisis management. The Green Party has an easy time painting both of you as out of touch with the current mood.



Q18: After early successes, the vaccination campaign has become sluggish in recent weeks. Most vulnerable groups have been taken care of, but some vaccine-critical or lethargic people have been on the holdout for their shot. What should be done about that in your opinion?
A1: I need to get a clear statement out to advertise the vaccine. 50 million people have been vaccinated twice. We’ve been the guinea pigs for everyone who’s waited this long. Speaking as one of those 50 million - it went well! Please participate.
F1: It doesn’t make huge waves, but what a strange plea. Your critics immediately jump to calling it tasteless and eccentric. The vaccination campaign chugs along, with your statement hugely being forgotten about.
A2: There needs to be stronger incentives to get vaccinated. I’m advocating for offering a free Bratwurst at vaccinations points, and to make Covid tests no longer free - if the unvaccinated want to go to the restaurant for example, they’ll need to pay to get tested beforehand.
F2: Some accuse you of wanting a rift in society between vaccinated and unvaccinated people - however, this is likely to be an efficient measure to help the ailing vaccination campaign. A good vaccination rate can only help you, as the only active government official in the race.
A3: Several thousand fellow citizens of this country have died, and you can’t talk or wish it away. With everything going on, there should be no more red lines. If there’s not a significant uptick in vaccinations in the coming months, we need to think about making the vaccine mandatory. It’s something to look into in the coming weeks.
F3: This would almost certainly up the vaccination rate, however, a vaccine mandate is still politically more unpopular than popular. Legal scholars also question if such a measure is constitutional in the first place. Not even Karl Lauterbach has gone this far yet.
A4: It’s a personal decision if someone wants to get vaccinated or not. We shouldn’t discriminate against people who don’t want the vaccination - any extra efforts to pressure them would go to waste.
F4: This defeatist attitude is not what the country wants to hear from its Vice Chancellor. Some even perceive this as a <i>Querdenker</i>-sympathetic dog whistle - a bad batch of press follows, as even Karl Lauterbach publicly criticizes you.

EQ5: A bit of a minor issue, but one that has gripped the imagination of many young voters is the topic of cannabis. Currently, it is a controlled substance, and illegal to produce, distribute or own. In light of worldwide movements to decriminalize or even legalize it: <i>Wann Bubatz legal</i>?
A1: Cannabis is a societal reality, like alcohol. We should start to take steps towards a regulated distribution to adults, accompanied by addiction prevention measures. The possession of small amounts shouldn’t be prosecuted anymore.
F1: This has been a widely debated topic inside your party, but as times seem to be changing, the SPD goes along with progress. Your stance is applauded by the Jusos and sounds reasonable to the broader public, although Laschet now plays on consolidating the moralist-seniors-lane.
A2: We are against the legalization of illegal drugs. The risks for the individual and society are too great - instead, we should work towards addiction prevention, as well as early and suitable sanctions, that incentivise taking counseling and therapy. We do acknowledge the medical usage of Cannabis, however.
F2: Legalization is a controversial topic in your party, but you have squarely sided with the conservatives here - and they're in  the minority. Your base is disappointed and it’s unclear whether this can endear you to moderates, as some Jusos look to the Greens as the more socially progressive option.
A3: Legalize it! We are for permitting the controlled distribution of Cannabis, through regulated sales in licenced shops. We do need projects to prevent drug abuse and youth protection though, financed through consumption taxes, as well as a legal framework around marihuana usage.
F3: Legalization is widely debated in your party, but it seems most cautiously favor it. You risk alienating moderate voters, but hopefully social issues aren’t the deciding factor this election. You do have something to show to young people, who’re expected to turn out more this year, which could help competing with the Greens.
A4: We don’t just want to legalize Cannabis, but also decriminalize small amounts of hard party drugs like XTC, cocaine and amphetamines. The criminalization of drug consumers is a relic from the last century, the ‘right for intoxication’ should be self-evident.
F4: Been to the <i>Berghain</i> one too many times, Olaf? There are many proponents for legalization in your party, but to the average German, this stance seems almost horrifying. The media hops on your statements, particularly the ‘right for intoxication’. You’re only appealing to a small fringe, and have nothing to gain from this eccentric offensive.

Q19: August 2021: It seems you’ve really brought about a small miracle. <br> When you were nominated as chancellor candidate almost a year ago, your campaign seemed hopeless - now, after several missteps by your opponents, the SPD’s position in the polls has improved significantly, while both the Greens and the CDU struggle. How do you want to keep the momentum going?
A1: Annalena Baerbock is vulnerable right now, but to ensure a strong mandate after the election, we need to fully quell any ambition the Greens have for the chancellery. They’re still a party that likes to handle things with bans, instead of finding technological solutions. They think an appeal to sacrifice is enough. I think we’re capable of more.
F1: Up until now, you’ve refused to attack Baerbock - taking on such a negative tone now might actually taint your image a bit. That said, you do turn the heads of many Söderistic Union-voters and the most conservative of Greens - maybe they’re a good addition to your electoral coalition.
A2: Armin Laschet is our main opponent - he’s the one we have to beat if I want to become chancellor. Competence is a big factor for many middle-of-the-road voters, and his crisis management is consistently subpar and strange. We need to emphasize this part of our ad campaign.
F2: Your crisis management has consistently been praised, while Laschet has made a fool of himself several times. This pitch helps entice the classic, undogmatic centrist that is the German median voter - although the core of the Union’s voter base might stick with them until the end.
A3: What we need in Germany is composure. There’s no need to attack anyone. I will simply keep doing what I’m doing and show myself as the calm, competent alternative. My promise is predictability.
F3: That’s the recipe, right there. Calm and steady. In a time where leaders like Boris Johnson, Erdoğan, Bolsonaro or Trump raise hell, you’re exactly the kind of politician people crave for. Your favorability numbers are rivaling even that of the chancellor herself.
A4: Let’s talk issues: we need to fully coalesce the center-left around us. We want to show off that the ‘Good Old SPD’ is back - let’s emphasize our regime of social welfare reforms, a fairer tax system and a general focus on Respect towards people of all backgrounds, regardless of sex, ethnicity or social strata.
F4: Extending your newfound popularity towards the program of your party isn’t a bad move. The SPD certainly gains in polling concerning who’s most able to tackle the problems Germany faces. This fortifies the gains you’ve already made and might make further inroads into the Greens’ new coalition.

EQ99:As the year takes its course, the party wants you to concentrate your efforts on The Campaign Trail and embark on a ‘Scholz will tackle it’-tour”. Where would you like to start the first event of seven big-time stops all over Germany?
A1: Let’s hold our first event in the Social Democrat heartland, Bochum, in the Ruhr-area. Winning back North Rhine-Westphalia’s workers to our cause is a key component of every electoral campaign the SPD wages.
F1: As Herbert Grönemeyer’s song ‘Bochum’ says about the city: “You have a pulse of steel”. Many blue-collar workers are disheartened and demotivated, and although the initial applause is middling, your spirited and focussed take on Respect and Solidarity, and even more so your attacks on the Union, consolidate your core-base in this traditionally red area.
A2: There’s one Genosse who is just as popular as me - Stephan Weil, Minister-President of Lower Saxony. My former home state has a lot of electoral potential with a broad array of voters - let’s appear with him in the university city of Göttingen.
F2: Stephan is indeed a major carrier of sympathy, popular in your party and with his constituents - in front of 2000 citizens of varying ages you set out a progressive policy regime on climate, housing and the minimum wage. Since Lower Saxony also has its local election two weeks before the big date, your appearance is much appreciated.
A3: We need to listen more to the concerns of our unfortunately oft-forgotten New States. I want to send a message to our East German citizens, by starting this tour in Saxony, in Leipzig.
F3: East Germany appreciates that you aren’t forgetting their concerns, although a lot of disengaged and frustrated voters are to be found in the countryside, rather than the comparatively progressive city of Leipzig. Nonetheless, as you vow to spend more money on social care, financial support for children and an equalization of wages between East and West, people are happy that you seem to take them seriously.
A4: Southern Germany has always been a weak point for us Social Democrats, but Bavaria is still the second-most populous state in the republic. Let’s outmaneuver our opponents and start this tour in the center of Munich!
F4: The bells of the Munich city hall delay the start of your event by a bit, but nonetheless, when you appear on stage, everyone is motivated, and your shots against the CSU gain easy applause. You appear regal, serious and controlled, and as you discuss urban topics like rents, your fellow Genossen already see the future chancellor within you.

EQ6: A defining social issue is the question of abortion. Currently, criminal law §218 disallows abortions generally, but decriminalizes them in case of rape, or if the pregnancy is under 12 weeks old. Additionally, §219a establishes an “ad ban” for doctors offering abortions. You’re asked for your stance on this controversial topic.
A1: While §218 is a settled compromise from our societal discussions, we are for striking the §219a ad ban: women who are deciding on an abortion need unrestricted access to information. We also need to train more doctors and prevent pressure from abortion opponents in front of clinics.
F1: Abortion hasn’t been very salient before, but the SPD always stood on the progressive side of this issue, and you seem to affirm this. Your work in the coalition can be credited with small reforms of §219a two years ago, and building on this gives you credibility with women’s groups without derailing the campaign.
A2: We want to strike $218, 219 and 219a from the books completely. Pregnancy issues are not part of criminal law - abortion is a medical service that has to be managed as part of regular health care. The stigma has to be broken, and the supply of doctors offering abortion has to be increased.
F2: A steadfast progressive answer - you’re following the ascendant youth wing of the party into a new age here, with a leftwards drift of your rhetoric on social issues. This could help consolidate the left-of-center around you instead of Baerbock, but beware of older <i>Genossen</i> who might be weary of culture wars.
A3: The current situation is fine as is. Unborn life does have a right to be protected. Furthermore, the ad ban has already been loosened two years ago, to provide better access to information for affected women and legal certainty for doctors and hospitals, if an abortion is necessary.
F3: This would’ve been considered mainstream many years ago, but it doesn’t fit the spirit of the times - you seem out of touch. You might appeal to disaffected male workers, but it isn’t enough of a salient issue to make any larger gains. Instead, your moralist defeatism has alienated Jusos and women's groups, who vehemently disagree.
A4: We need to immediately strike § 218 and $ 219 - instead a right to free, simple and accessible abortions has to be guaranteed; state-build hospitals should be required to perform the procedure. Furthermore, with contraceptives ensuring the right for self-determination, they should be fully covered by insurance.
F4: This promise echoes Die Linke’s platform in 2017. Moral issues weren’t at the forefront of this campaign, but your strong answer has vocally outraged conservative groups. Women’s groups and young voters are stoked by your advocacy, but there are numerous older working class people who dislike the new “woke” SPD.

Q20: There are 7 parties poised to enter parliament, and none has ever won an absolute majority since Adenauer in 1957. As such, it is basically guaranteed that there will be a coalition government after the elections. You are asked ad-nauseam - who would you enter a coalition with?
A1: I am sympathetic to a leftist-progressive alliance. I will not rule out a coalition with the Left, because this partisan pot-banging isn’t healthy for a Democracy. We have to have respect before the voters, only they can decide who will govern Germany, and what Germany needs is a turning point.
F1: For the first time in a Federal election, a government participation of Die Linke seems feasible. With the party’s dubious past and positions on Foreign Policy, it’s a prospect that scares many moderates, which Laschet is trying to profit off of. A Red-Red-Green coalition would probably be the most leftist government Germany has ever seen.
A2: My favorite coalition would be Red-Green, I would like to govern with the Greens. If this arrangement has no majority, we’ll have to see how we can best form a government.
F2: Everyone expected you to favor the Greens as a partner, since your parties do share a lot of policy similarities. Laschet needles you on your silence regarding Die Linke, but keeping your options open might be a good thing in this fickle day and age.
A3: A change in government with a new beginning for Germany is possible: the chancellorship of a Social Democrat has become a real prospect. One thing is clear - three GroKo’s back-to-back wouldn’t be healthy for Germany’s democracy. No one wants to continue this coalition after 2021.
F3: While you dodge the topic regarding a government participation of Die Linke, disavowing a new Groko is a popular move, especially since it's not even clear SPD and Union will have a majority together. Hopefully, you’ll be able to negotiate a better alternative after the election.
A4: A coalition with the Left is hard to imagine for me. Every government in Germany has to commit clearly to the transatlantic partnership, the membership in Nato and for a strong and sovereign European Union. Instead, I want to promise a fair treatment to the Liberals of the FDP in possible coalition talks.
F4: Your answer satisfies moderates and ceises any attacks from Laschet. Still - certain parts of your traditional base were hoping for a progressive alliance, including leadership. This limits your options: the FDP under Christian Lindner prefers Laschet for now, but maybe your advances can soften them up for a Traffic Light coalition.


<merkelquestion>

Q21: September 2021: Pictures of the disastrous retreat of NATO troops from Afghanistan go around the globe. Many loyal locals are left behind, as the Taliban are poised to make a comeback. The government is sharply criticized for its botched evacuation - what do you want to emphasize in this situation?
A1: We are working on it, using all available resources. We’ve already brought most people in need of protection to Germany, but we're making an effort to speed it up. The Afghan government has abandoned its country - now, we need to act fast.
F1: There’s not much you can do except calm people’s anxieties. That said, the whole affair still doesn’t reflect well on the government - the whole Afghanistan debacle is repeatedly criticized, and your party does catch some of the blame.
A2: It’s bitter, what’s happening in Afghanistan. Many who were hoping for a better life are seeing their hopes shattered. Now we need to help those who need to be supported, because they need protection, especially women who fought for equal treatment. We’ve identified a great number of people whom we’re giving the opportunity to come to Germany.
F2: This differentiates you from the CDU and Laschet, who are more cautious regarding refugees. Not everyone is thrilled about another wave of asylum seekers - but this proactive step increases your progressive credentials without ruffling feathers in your party.
A3: I’m going to be clear - the government is acting together here, and with such a serious matter, you shouldn’t throw around unfounded allegations about the Foreign Ministry as Armin Laschet does. The Ministries of the Interior, Defense and the Foreign Ministry are closely cooperating, and I abhor the attempts to slander this cooperation.
F3: This is a strong and integrous answer to CDU criticism, but putting a spotlight on this amplifies the blame game. The only one to profit from a disunited government on top of a Foreign Policy crisis is Annalena Baerbock.
A4: We’re working to bring everyone worthy of protection home. However, it’s clear that refugees who’ve broken the law have to be deported back home, regardless of who rules Afghanistan. We are serious about our criteria - the Ministry of the Interior said we can’t take anymore, and that’s that. Instead, we should support them to gain aid in neighboring countries.
F4: In contrast to the Greens, who are calling for taking in a higher contingent of refugees, you seem to be committed to preventing another 2015. There’s certainly a sizable voter block who do fear another wave of asylum seekers, but your association with Horst Seehofer here also raises eyebrows.

Q22: Uh-oh, this might be a <i>September Surprise</i>. Both your Ministry of Finances and the Ministry of Justice led by SPD colleague Christine Lambrecht have just been raided by the police. The warrant from the Police Department of Osnabrück, your own place of birth, is about an alleged cover-up by the FIU concerning failures in pursuing money laundering. You’re promptly criticized for not having your own house in order.
A1: Let’s be frank. Wolfgang just told me, the prosecutor in this case is active in the CDU. The prosecution here could have just sent a written request for information. Now they’ve chosen another path. Everyone may judge that for themselves.
F1: While it’s probably no coincidence that everyone involved in the investigation is close to the CDU, your political opponents smell weakness in your snark. Members of all parties condemn your response, as your perceived competency takes a hit. Meanwhile, Wolfgang is now also being investigated due to leaking this connection.
A2: Just remain calm and refuse to comment. The police search wasn’t related to any of my own actions, so there’s no reason to give this story any oxygen.
F2: While patience is usually a virtue of yours, it doesn’t help you here. An investigation into your own Ministry is too big of an issue to ignore, and your prolonged silence makes you seem suspicious. Let’s hope most people have already made up their mind for the election in a few weeks…
A3: Wolfgang just told me, of course the prosecutor is a CDU member! The life elixir of conservatives was always the strings with which they pave the way for lobbyists into government. Nothing is holy for the party with the C in its name - this right here is a serious case of instrumentalizing our judicial organs, and I’m going to hit back hard!
F3: A very unusual outburst from you. You mirror the words of NoWaBo - while members of all parties join in condemning you for your defensiveness, the media can’t ignore the allegations of violations against judicial independence. By taking the bull by its horns, you might take down the CDU with you, if anything comes from this investigation.
A4: The problems with the Financial Intelligence Unit already started when it was still led by the CDU, but I regret that we haven’t investigated this earlier. Of course, we’re fully cooperating with the authorities, providing them with all necessary documents. We’re going to get to the bottom of this.
F4: Once again, you’re prioritizing calmness and rationality above all else. This is a serious allegation, and you’re criticized by all corners of the political spectrum, but what else are you supposed to do except to see where the dice may fall? Not inflaming the situation any further might be your best bet.

Q23:  Official TV debates are a relatively recent phenomenon in Germany, only being consistently organized since 2002. Now, for the first time in German history, there will be a three-way debate, a so-called “Triell”. You, Annalena Baerbock and Armin Laschet are all invited. What is going to be your strategy?
A1: At the end of the day, this is a contest between the past and the future. Armin Laschet is our main competitor, and I fear what a government under his personality would look like. We need to take him down a notch, if we want to send the Union into opposition, where they belong.
F1: All numbers indicate that his competency is in serious doubt. Let’s hope you can convince people that you’re better chancellor material than him. Your advisors get out the oppo-research - now it’s up to you to make it count.
A2: The Center-Left needs to be united for good in order for me to win this election. By taking the attack to the Greens, we might reconquer our position as the dominant force for progressivism and Social Democracy in Germany.
F2: Attacking Baerbock is a risky strategy - the Greens are quite close to you politically, after all. That said, maybe her voters are the easiest to persuade of your cause and personality. Your advisors get out the oppo-research - time to walk the tightrope.
A3: Why bow down to baseless slander? I have the personality and the temper to become chancellor. Let’s present ourselves as stately and ready to take over the next era of German politics.
F3: Such an approach is very fitting with your persona, and is one that the public liked with Angela Merkel. Will you seem just as dignified or boring and drab? Let’s hope the German people want a statesman instead of a rabble-rouser.
A4: There has been a constant bias against your party in the media, going back to 2017 even. By rising above this slander, I will come out stronger than before. I will not attend this “Triell”!
F4: What are you doing? You’re achieving the exact opposite - the SPD seems like a minor third wheel now! Party leadership is furious that you’d pass up this opportunity. The main beneficiary is Baerbock, who goes on to competently defend the progressive course against Laschet.

Q24: During the Triell, you decided on Armin Laschet, Minister-President of North Rhine-Westphalia and chancellor candidate of the CDU, in a gamble to knock the CDU from its throne, once and for all. How do you want to attack him?
A1: The nerves are on edge with Armin Laschet. He has repeatedly criticized me for nonsense, as he did with Annalena Baerbock earlier this year. This is all to avert the public's eyes from the fact that his crisis management is a constant failure. Be it the egregious corruption within his party, the covid-response or the destructive floods in NRW, earlier this year.
F1: Your sharp tone is unexpected - Laschet is taken aback, caught by surprise. He feels personally slighted and gets defensive, your lawyer-like insistence gets under his skin. Annalena Baerbock appreciates your defense of her, and the both of you gang up to defeat the CDU candidate handily. People really got to see a new side of you today…
A2: For me it's clear: tax rebates for high earners, as the CDU proposes, are irresponsible and immoral. We've already taken on 400 Billion Euros in debt to bring us through this crisis. To now propose a tax decrease, just imagine that! This is unjust to the nurses, the teachers, the coal miners and the children in this country; we owe them more Respect!
F2: A classic line, but one that cleverly utilizes your government experience. By combining Social Democratic ideals with a competent rebuttal of Laschet's tax policies, you make it seem as though the SPD really did revitalize itself. The numbers after the debate show you at the top, with Baerbock not far behind.
A3: On climate change, the CDU does not have answers. Especially after the catastrophic floods this summer, it’s irresponsible to do as little as he proposes. The CDU/CSU has repeatedly denied the real demand for an improved electrical infrastructure. Someone like Mr. Laschet is sinning against the future of this country and will cost us prosperity and jobs.
F3: It’s not a bad avenue for attack, but the debate quickly turns wonky. With you as part of the Grand Coalition, you don’t have as much to show on climate change as Baerbock does - allowing her to define the Greens as the definitive alternative to the Status Quo. Polls indicate; it resonates with viewers.
A4: Actually, I’ve changed my mind. By holding myself back and standing steadfast against the mudslinging, I will trust on my instincts as a seasoned politician to rise above the pack.
F4: You’ve been in politics for countless years, and even before that, you’ve been a lawyer. You know how the game works, and you know that patience is a virtue. Although you do seem a bit robotic and drab now and then, at the end of the day, the Scholzomat proves to be surprisingly popular. I don’t know how you did it, but polls see you as the Triell’s winner…
EQ7: Along with the <i> Triell </i>, another TV debate is commonly held among surrogates of the smaller parties; the so-called <i> Vierkampf </i>. While the Greens have seemingly eclipsed the other Bundestag parties, it’s Janine Wissler of Die Linke, Christian Lindner of the FDP, Alice Weidel of the AfD and Alexander Dobrindt of the CSU, the smaller sister of the Union, debating about the issues of the day.
A1: Let's see who can come out on top – it won't change much either way.
F1: Not many people watch the debate, but for those that did, it's agreed that Wissler made some good points about wealth inequality and social justice – this could prove decisive for Die Linke to enter the Bundestag once again, considering the polling.
A2: Let's see who can come out on top – it won't change much either way.
F2: Not many people watch the debate, but for those that did, it's agreed that Lindner proved his rhetorical talent in talking about digitalization and fiscal responsibility. If they match or surpass their performance from 2017, they might be an important partner in coalition talks for you.
A3: Let's see who can come out on top – it won't change much either way.
F3: Not many people watch the debate, but for those that did, it’s agreed that Alexander Dobrindt made a surprisingly strong case for Laschet as the pragmatic heir of the Merkel era. This might help the CSU solidify its historical dominance in Bavaria, but it also garners some goodwill for the CDU chancellor candidate.
A4: Let's see who can come out on top – it won't change much either way.
F4: Not many people watch the debate, but in the following days people get more attentive, as the media observes how Alice Weidel surprisingly stunned her opponents with her points on Covid lockdowns and the political status quo. This might drive more disaffected people to the AfD, once and for all solidifying them on the right edge of German politics…

Q25: The 26th of September is just around the corner. It has been quite the eventful campaign. You were the first candidate to announce, but the last to really make a splash, after your dramatic surge after the Floods. Let’s hope you’ll manage to translate this newfound goodwill into real votes for your party! To accomplish a historic victory, which political ally do you wish to campaign with?
A1: Franziska Giffey and Manuela Schwesig are competent politicians trying to win the state elections for the SPD in Berlin and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern respectively. Let’s show the unity and gravitas of the renewed Social Democratic Party by having some events in Meckpom and our capital!
F1: Franziska and Manuela have very real chances to win their elections, and are grateful to appear beside you, as possible future hopefuls of your party. Especially the moderate wing of the party is pleased about your appearances in Schwerin and Berlin. It’s not far from there to your home in nearby Potsdam - let’s hope the voters believe that “Scholz will tackle it”.
A2: As a former vice chair of the Jusos myself, I want to bury the hatchet with Kevin Kühnert. He’s a man of great political talent, and by appearing at his side, I want to show our left wing and the youth in this country that the SPD is a renewed party that can tackle the problems of today and tomorrow.
F2: You embark on a folksy rally in Kevin’s very own constituency in Berlin, Tempelhof-Schöneberg. Hundreds of Jusos cheer you on, hopeful for a vigorous victory after the depressive crisis the SPD was in just a year ago. Playing on a vast array of leftist policies, you return to Potsdam with the trust of your party base: “Scholz will tackle it”.
A3: Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans may have been my opponents, but they proved real leadership when they made me chancellor candidate nonetheless. I am not going to disappoint them - we’ll be taking the attack to Laschet's home state of North Rhine-Westphalia, a traditional SPD stronghold, and show the unity of the Social Democrats.
F3: The press really does have to admit - the SPD has put up a respectable and united campaign . While Saskia and NoWaBo are not the most charismatic speakers, NRW is a valuable electoral prize, and the improving image of your party might help potential voters to take a second look. When you return to Potsdam, party leadership is certain: “Scholz will tackle it”.
A4: It’s scary what is happening in some parts of East Germany. Right-Wingers are close to picking up several direct mandates there. While the AfD is our biggest enemy in that regard, I want to specifically travel to South Thuringia, to help our candidate Frank Ullrich defeat the infamous Hans-Georg Maaßen. We can not let a man like him enter the Bundestag.
F4: Hans-Georg Maaßen, although running for the CDU, is certainly emblematic of the right-wing demagogues you’re trying to defeat in East Germany. This visit might make valuable inroads in the New States. Even the Greens endorsed Ullrich. When you come home to Potsdam, you can only hope the <i>ostalgics</i> have faith that “Scholz will tackle it”.

Alternative zu Q2 falls linkeste Antwort in Q1
Q26: November 2019: One condition the SPD had for entering the Grand coalition was that there would be an evaluation of the government's accomplishments at half-time. The time for that is now - as Vice Chancellor, you get to make significant input and have considerable sway in the evaluation. Given how low approvals are for the government and the SPD in general, are you satisfied with the achievements of the Merkel IV administration so far?
A1: Overall, we are satisfied. We’ve finished about a third of the projects we wanted to do according to the coalition agreement and a lot more are currently on the way, like programs for stable pension levels or the “Good-Daycare-Law”. We are on a good path.
F1: An expected answer of the “Scholzomat”. This is a good framing of what you have already achieved, but many, especially from your left, question if these achievements are enough, given how your party was rarely credited with them. You better hope you can convince the electorate.
A2: We have made good progress on a lot of projects, for example expanding the Mother's pension, and definitively want to continue the coalition until the end of the term, yes. However, after the next election, the country needs a new government without CDU and CSU!
F2: A lot of people, especially in your party agree - this Grand coalition was already an emergency solution after the Jamaica coalition talks fell through. Pointing to some successes at least shows how this wasn't a fruitless endeavor. Let’s see how the next parliamentary majority will turn out - right now, the CDU/CSU is still on solid ground.
A3: Frankly, we can’t be satisfied with the last one and a half years. It’s simply not possible to pass the laws Germany needs while governing with the CDU/CSU and I don’t know if it’s a good idea to continue this coalition.
F3: Your rhetoric comes as a surprise, although as a pleasant one to the Anti-Groko-crowd. The CDU/CSU accuses you of trying to drag them down, with some even calling for your resignation. A small media frenzy ensues, and although the coalition survives, everyone’s favorabilities are impacted. Let’s hope it was worth the discord.
A4: I am completely satisfied, yes. We are good governing partners and I’m looking forward to further cooperation - perhaps also after the next election. We've enacted good legislation - and everyone wanting to exit this coalition has to ask themselves if we could enact these measures from the opposition.
F4: It’s unclear what to make of this - is this a ploy to save the coalition or are you really this much of a flip-flopper? In any case, the government holds, but your standing in the party does not improve. In fact, you’ve damaged your image enough that the party ostracizes you when you approach them about a possible chancellor candidacy.

Alternative to 7 if between left and moderate
Q27: Soon, the election campaign is going to begin properly. The CDU lost some support due to some of their MPs selling overpriced medical masks, but unfortunately, the SPD barely profited from that. In order to change that, up until now, you’ve leaned into a moderate image, somewhat evocative of the “Netzwerker”-wing of the party. Significant parts of your base are wary about your refusal to move further left - is this something you want to continue?
A1: Yes - the SPD is a renewed party of the center. There are many voters in the middle of our society and the political spectrum looking for an alternative to the out-of-touch CDU. The SPD is a modern Volkspartei, and a pragmatic, unideological course is the right one to endear people to our policies.
F1: You’re a good fit personally for this strategy and this is consistent with your history. That said, most SPD candidates of the last 15 years have tried this - to increasingly middling effects. Party leadership is less than stoked that you’d disavow a more leftist take they’d hoped for - and the bleeding from disappointed members of the base continues.
A2: We do need some moderation and prudence. I want to evoke Merkel, she’s served this country in a remarkable way, always oriented at substance and fact. However, this is also the start of a new era - we also need a decade of modernization, mostly running on our theme of “Respect”. That way, we can keep together all wings of our party.
F2: With this strategy, you're trying to have the best of both worlds, and it’s mostly working. Your personal numbers remain high, and the Merkel comparisons follow suit, while your party stays united behind you. Let’s hope you can deliver them the resurgence of modern Social Democracy they crave.
A3: I have changed my mind about some of these things, especially due to the warranted criticism from the left of our party. I want to emphasize that we need to move beyond Merkel. It matters who is governing, and the next decade is about how we design the future of this country - the Social Democratic Party can do it best.
F3: It is a huge turn around for you to amend your style like that, though the base is riled up at your newfound energy. You do turn some heads and grab the attention of the press - but criticism of the woman whose government you technically still work for doesn’t come off as too stately.


Alternative to 7 if left
Q28: Soon, the election campaign is going to begin properly. The CDU lost some support due to some of their MPs selling overpriced medical masks, but unfortunately, the SPD barely profited from that. In order to change that, up until now, you’ve leaned into a surprisingly leftist image, evocative of the “Parlamentarische Linke”-wing of the party. Party leadership and the Jusos are stoked about your new course, but others believe you're too ideological for the average German - is this something you want to continue?
A1: We need to stand by our values and unite our party – this is what I've done at the onset of this campaign. While I stand by our platform, of course, we do need to move towards the center for the electoral campaign, at least in rhetoric. People want prudence and moderation from their chancellor, as we've seen from Merkel, and we need to win over the median voter.
F1: A classic electoral strategy – but one that has been tried out several times over the last campaigns, and always without avail. Maybe your image can change that? Anyhow, your repeated political 180's clash with this pretense of stability. Voters and party members alike are increasingly confused.
A2: As it says in our principal guidelines: „Committed to the people, in the proud tradition of democratic socialism, with a sense for reality and energy, the German Social Democrats are accepting their quest in the world of the 21st century.“ Germany is a European stronghold of grand capital – ultimately, we need to overcome the capitalist economy.
F2: Genosse Olaf is back, rejoice! To many, it seems horrifying. Even though they share your convictions, even the influential left wing of the party is telling you to ease it up with the class warfare. There are a few calls from Die Linke for a „reunification“ of the leftist bloc, but that just makes centrists doubt you even more. A socialist, as their Minister of Finances?
A3: This is about respect: We need to safeguard the right for a good education and good work and a more just tax system. The project of Social Democracy includes not leaving anyone behind - I think the famous song "You'll never walk alone" summarizes that very well. We stand by everyone who is keeping this system up and running!
F3: What energy! There was some chatter if this “New Scholz” would stay around for the general election campaign, and it seems like he does! This leftist turn does put you in contrast to Laschet, Merkel and past nominees from your party. Leadership is pleased, and offers you additional support for the campaign.

Alternative zu Q14 falls Emails übergeben
Q29: June 2021: The parliamentary commission investigating the Wirecard-scandal has finished its job and created a report. You aren’t directly implicated, but with the help of the E-Mails you turned over, it’s undeniable that you and your ministry made mistakes. During the debate about this in the Bundestag, how do you want to present yourself?
A1: No. Let the Union criticize me, other members of my party can defend me just fine. I’ll wait this out, patiently.
F1: While your unrelenting calmness usually helps - in this case, people are scratching their heads about your arrogance, and calls for your resignation grow louder and louder. At least you’re not the only one struggling right now - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and unreported earnings.
A2: It’s obvious that these attacks on me are nothing but a cheap political ploy. There’s no clear evidence of any wrongdoing by me and I will fight back passionately against these allegations!
F2: When you aren’t holding back, you can be surprisingly impassioned. Your outburst risks seeming defensive, but you’re rallying your party to your aid, turning this issue more and more partisan.  At least you’re not the only one struggling right now - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and unreported earnings.
A3: Some of these people are calling for my resignation, so something has to give. Jörg Kukies, the State Secretary serving under me in the Finance Ministry, unfortunately has to resign. Maybe that can calm down their moods.
F3: Kukies understands. It’s painful for you to let such a close advisor and friend go, but making him a scapegoat satisfies the public as far as a reaction from you is concerned. At least you’re not the only one struggling right now - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and some payments.


Alternative to 19 if bad polling
Q30: There’s no sugarcoating it - after the downward spiral of the last few years, most Social Democrats have already signed off on becoming a minor party or even jumped ship to The Greens. Despite your opponent’s missteps, you are still quite a bit behind. Party leadership is demanding you to react - how are you going to finally turn this thing around?
A1: Annalena Baerbock is vulnerable right now, in the light of all her scandals. If we take off the velvet gloves and emphasize our progressive platform, we can show them: I am the man who can beat Laschet to modernize this country for good.
F1: This strategy is somewhat successful - the Greens are losing some ground in the polls, and you seem like an alright alternative for Center-Left voters. That said, many people just prefer Baerbock over you, despite her failings. The brand of the SPD just isn’t a very good one these days.
A2: Armin Laschet is our main opponent - he’s the one we have to beat if I want to become chancellor. With his numerous blunders in his crisis response, we can raise hell about his incompetence. There’s a certain kind of voter who might jump ship to us, if Laschet proves to be a bad successor to Merkel.
F2: Many CDU voters would never vote for the SPD - but you are right, your record and image does nicely contrast with Laschets. Most voters agree that you’d be a good chancellor - dragging the Union down with attacks might shake this race up, if you can regain some momentum.
A3: What we need in Germany is composure. There’s no need to attack anyone. I will simply keep doing what I’m doing and show myself as the calm, competent alternative. My promise is predictability.
F3: This is an expected response by you - but now, it’s to your detriment. While your composed and unphased campaigning style catches a few observant eyes, you can’t break through in the horse race. Saskia and Norbert are unhappy about your strategy, but it might be too late to go back to the drawing board.
A4: Both Laschet and Baerbock have shown their incompetence in the past weeks and frankly disqualified themselves in this race. If we want to catch back the attention of voters, we need to raise hell about this. I’m going to call out their failings at every opportunity, contrasting it with the positive record I have accrued in government.
F4: On paper, this seems decent - you do catch a few more headlines after all. That said, attacking your opponents like this goes against your usually calm nature and does damage to your image, as your cross-partisan popularity sinks. Ironically, this makes you less likely to be an attractive alternative towards the voters.

Q31: During the Triell, you decided on Annalena Baerbock, co-party leader and chancellor candidate of the Green Party. Her campaign has been rocked by numerous scandals, allowing you to stay somewhat competitive, but this wasn’t enough for you, it seems. How do you plan to attack her?
A1: Mrs. Baerbock has not proven herself in the executive. While some attacks against her were too harsh, she was rightfully criticized for her bonus payments during Covid. Something like this is owed to the people who were doing remarkable work during the pandemic - her foolish statements and lack of care there show that experience is a positive, to avoid such mistakes.
F1: You really have taken off the velvet gloves here - you’re repeating conservative talking points, and while some you do have a point, all in all, you seem condescending. Baerbock is able to easily retort, appealing to a change in the political landscape. She and Laschet tie, while your performance seemed awkward and unfocused.
A2: If you're continually meddling with the gas prices, you show how little you care about the needs of our citizens. Higher costs of energy must be affordable for everyone. The Greens just haven't been honest about the costs their proposals would incur for people with lower incomes. Climate protection can only work in the end, if it’s socially just.
F2: This is the most effective attack you have against the Greens, echoing the concerns of many low-income voters - a key part of the Social Democratic coalition. Baerbock accuses you of slowing down climate action, but your talking points are undoubtedly more popular. Laschet gets in a few hits against you on Wirecard, but both of you get decent grades.
A3: The perspective the Greens propose for Germany isn't the way our country should go. Their „prohibitory politics“ would make living unaffordable in Germany. Things like banning inland-flights and a raise on gas prices are clearly clientele-politics, not fit for Germany's governing party. I want Germany to stay an industrial nation, building and exporting cars.
F3: Laschet is happy to join the mudslinging against Green politics, but your take seems quite outdated overall. The attacks seem to strengthen and motivate Baerbock all the more, and she’s able to forge a solid profile as the only candidate for meaningful climate action. With even some party colleagues doubting you on Twitter, the Greens decidedly win the Triell.
A4: Actually, I’ve changed my mind. By holding myself back and standing steadfast against the mudslinging, I will trust on my instincts as a seasoned politician to rise above the pack.
F4: You’ve been in politics for countless years, and even before that, you’ve been a lawyer. You know how the game works, and you know that patience is a virtue. Although you do seem a bit robotic and drab now and then, at the end of the day, the Scholzomat proves to be surprisingly popular. I don’t know how you did it, but polls see you as the Triell’s winner…

Q32: Instead of resorting to a negative tone, you’ve decided to present yourself as calm and collected without explicitly focussing on an opponent. This is your usual go-to, but there are several avenues you could take. What do you want to emphasize?
A1: My focus will be solidarity. The tendency of disintegration of our societies into polarized camps that won't trust each other – that's the opposite of what we need in Germany. We need more cohesion – not less! Our politics have to serve everyone, even those who fear the coming change. Only if we are united can we solve the biggest problems of our time.
F1: Not a bad idea - many Germans worry about the polarization of society, and this is a topic close to your brand and heart. While a bit light on details, you seem empathetic and caring, while Laschet sticks out as angry and offended. Overall, you hold an edge in most polls, with Baerbock’s plea for change not far behind.
A2: In light of recent events, let’s go on a cautious defensive. I am going to answer any questions in a calm, friendly, factual manner. No experiments, no heated exchanges, no controversial policies. I will stay true to myself - Merkel got good grades for her debate performances, and I'm going to evoke that.
F2: Are you sure, Olaf? Alright, I’m gonna trust your instincts… <br> Well, not too shabby. Indeed, your composed demeanor has seemingly fended off any attacks from Laschet about your scandals, while Baerbock disappeared into the background. It’s unclear who won - but you did seem quite stately, which has appeal to a certain kind of voter.
A3: Everyone has the right to be recognized for their hard work. The matter of Respect deals with hard material, social and economical matters, like fair wages, collective bargaining, precarious working conditions or old age poverty. We need to solve these concrete problems with a new politic of Respect, to strengthen the trust in our democracy.
F3: Your attempts at selling a modern Social Democracy with the theme of Respect are admirable, but a lot of leftists are unlikely to be swayed, feeling betrayed after years of neoliberalism and GroKo’s. Still, the overall branding isn’t bad, and your impassioned defense of your party turns some voters’ heads. Overall, the Triell’s a tie between you and Laschet.
A4: Actually, you know what? We need to change things up. Let’s turn some heads and stick out - I will attack Laschet and Baerbock whenever an opportunity presents itself. That way, I can sharpen my profile and show myself as the most competent candidate.
F4: Four words: Unprepared And Weirdly Aggressive. Throwing around with fire turns off those who liked Merkel’s style of politics, and as you get especially defensive during Laschet’s attacks on cum-ex and the Wirecard affair, your retorts are too embarrassing for many to keep watching. Laschet and Baerbock get good marks, while you’ve faltered. Drat.

If answer 4 was chosen on both of the last questions
Q33: July 2020:  It’s more than a year until the federal election, though there are talks that the SPD already wants to nominate a chancellor candidate. You and Rolf Mützenich, the leader of the parliamentary group, are the names mentioned most often. The party leadership has invited you to talk to them - how do you want to convince them that you are the right person?
A1: I see the writing on the wall -  I lost the leadership election to two politicians that were perceived as more ambitious than me. Therefore, I’ll promise to run a decidedly left-wing campaign when nominated as chancellor candidate - back to the roots of the Good Old SPD. We need to move on from Agenda 2010-politics.
F1: Leadership seems convinced, though enthusiasm looks different. You’re still the most qualified person in the new SPD, and as Kevin Kühnert is ready to give you another change, you’re nominated as chancellor candidate. Hopefully, this stance doesn’t clash with your previous image too much, and can take the wind out of the insurgent Green sails. Glück auf, Genosse!
A2: They know who I am and what I stand for. While I recognize that the left wing of the party is a significant force, I am in the unique position of passing reliable and pragmatic Social Democratic policies whilst taking on the role of Merkel’s successor with my persona. That way, we can deliver a convincing win for our party!
F2: Leadership isn’t particularly thrilled about nominating you, and in light of your vigorous defenses of the Grand Coalition in the past months, the party simply chooses to follow a different path than yours. In an unlikely twist, party group leader Rolf Mützenich is chosen as the chancellor candidate and you are sidelined for the rest of the campaign.
A3:  I’m the most electable candidate. Without me, the situation for the SPD will be even more hopeless than it already is. We want to have a chance at leading the new government, and I am the preferred candidate of German voters, no matter if I lost the leadership contest.
F3: Norbert and Saskia aren’t particularly thrilled about nominating you, but the argument is persuasive: who else, if not you? Let’s hope you can repay the trust they placed in you by subverting expectations next year, to not be relegated to the backbench like Martin Schulz. Glück auf, Genosse!
A4: It was already a mistake by the party to not choose me as leader. I’m the Vice Chancellor, I deserve this candidacy, and if they think someone else in this party can be a better chancellor candidate, they are sorely mistaken.
F4: Unfortunately for you, the party seems to want a break from the policies of the past and is not swayed by your aggressive stance. You come off as a bad loser. In an unlikely twist, party group leader Rolf Mützenich is chosen as the chancellor candidate for the SPD.



EQ8: It is somewhat of a tradition for political candidates to engage in the SZ-magazine’s <i>Interview Without Words</i>, where a certain number of questions is to be answered using only gestures, props and facial expressions, captured in photography. In what’s certain to be a high profile event, you’re asked: “How much will you miss Angela Merkel”?

Merkelismus >15
A1: Well, there’s really only one answer. The <i>Merkel-Raute</i>.
F1: Pictures of you doing the famous gesture ruminate through the media landscape. The photo-op just spells it out straightforwardly: you are the true <b>Merkel-candidate</b>. You even got the polls to back it up - your favorability rivals only hers, and a great number of people regard you as the best person equipped to take over this esteemed profession. <i>They Know You</i>.

Merkelismus >10
A1: Well, there’s really only one answer. The <i>Merkel-Raute</i>.
F1: While it seems a bit corny to some, the media quickly picks up on the single most succinct description of your electoral tactic - and by all accounts, it resonates with people. The Merkel-comparisons don’t stop, much to Laschet's chagrin, with voters of all affiliations seeing a calm, rational, capable leader within you. Hopefully it can translate to the ballot box.

Merkelismus >5
A1: Let’s do a respectful gesture: I am going to salute the chancellor.
F1: A brief, regal nod towards your current boss. Although it shows that you never served, paying respect to this larger-than-life figure is an appropriate conciliatory gesture from the Social Democrats. That said, some within your base harbor less respect towards the <i>“chancellor of standstill”</i>. Maybe you can bridge the gap between these camps.

Merkelismus <5
A1: Let’s dodge this loaded question, I don’t want to seem opportunistic. Just do a friendly smile.
F1: Successful dodge. Noone can really object to this, but it seems strangely apathetic towards such a historic figure, interwoven with your own political career. The SZ-journalists are disappointed, but on the campaign goes.

Merkelismus <2
A1: I can’t say I’m going to miss her much… you know what, let’s reference Peer Steinbrücks famous 2013 interview!
F1: No… no! Olaf, what are you - drat, they already shot the picture! Hey can you… can you delete that one? No? Well, it’s Freedom of the Press… god damnit Olaf, this is the one time you dare to show your emotions? Heaven’s sake… We need damage control, now. Maybe this can coalesce the Anti-Merkel-crowd around you… but don’t count on it with such a gesture.

Q999: Wenn Merkelism 20, ersetze A1
A5: It’s a bit unconventional, but despite being from a different party, I share many similarities with outgoing chancellor Angela Merkel. I have nothing but respect for her - let’s cautiously reach out and ask for a televised meeting alongside her, in the context of just government work.
F5: Your political brand is certainly quite similar to hers, but Merkel is still a loyal CDU woman and would rather campaign with Laschet. That said, she refrains from attacking your person, and even leaves a cautious comment, that “several candidates in this race are well equipped to honor [her] political legacy”. Maybe even she believes that “Scholz will tackle it”.

Alternative zu Q2 wenn Q1A3:
A1: Overall, we are satisfied. We’ve finished about a third of the projects we wanted to do according to the coalition agreement and a lot more are currently on the way, like programs for stable pension levels or the “Good-Daycare-Law”. We are on a good path.
F1: An expected answer of the “Scholzomat”. This is a good framing of what you have already achieved, but many, especially from your left, question if these achievements are enough, given how your party was rarely credited with them. NoWaBo and Esken aren’t convinced, and overlook you in their search for a chancellor candidate.
A2: We have made good progress on a lot of projects, for example expanding the Mother's pension, and definitively want to continue the coalition until the end of the term, yes. However, after the next election, the country needs a new government without CDU and CSU!
F2: This is a flip-flop for you, but maybe you’ve learned your lesson. The party agrees, this Grand coalition was already an emergency solution after the Jamaica coalition talks fell through, and there is no future for Social Democratic policy with the CDU. Pointing to some successes at least shows how this wasn't a fruitless endeavor.
A3: Frankly, we can’t be satisfied with the last one and a half years. It’s simply not possible to pass the laws Germany needs while governing with the CDU/CSU and I don’t know if it’s a good idea to continue this coalition.
F3: Wait, what? In just a few months, you’ve seemingly done a complete political 180, from running as a pro-GroKo-candidate for party leadership to a GroKo opponent. The media and your party is stunned - and as Merkel gets wind of your embarrassing escapades, she demands your resignation.

A4: I am completely satisfied, yes. We are good governing partners and I’m looking forward to further cooperation - perhaps also after the next election. We've enacted good legislation - and everyone wanting to exit this coalition has to ask themselves if we could enact these measures from the opposition.
F4: A fair point, but the Grand coalition is very unpopular within the party and no one - apart from you, apparently -  wants to continue it after the next election. The SPD just walks in another direction than you - and when NoWaBo and Esken search for a standard bearer for the next election, you don’t even come up as an option.


GROKO-STANCE CYOA

Q7: MitteA2 wenn 2 von: Q1A1, Q2A3/Q26A3, Q3A1 [AntiGroko]
A2: We can't let the accomplishments of our party be talked down in our coalition under Angela Merkel. We want to govern, and we will continue to govern. There's lots to be done, and we want to prove our responsibility to the German citizen. That said, we do need to move beyond this arrangement, and I will extend a hand to party leadership to make sure every voice is heard.
F2: Defending the Grand Coalition is a strange move in light of your recent Anti-Groko rhetoric. In principle, it’s good to defend your party’s record, but it seems somewhat contradictory for you to strike this tone now. People are irritated, and Party leadership as well as the Jusos are skeptical about the sincerity of your earlier pivots…
[-0.025, Linke +0.02, Grüne +0.01 CDU +0.005, SPD in Meckpom: +0.002] Merkelism +1

Q27 NetzwerkerA3 wenn Q1A3/Q1A4 und Q2A4/Q26A4, nicht Q3A1 [ProGroko]
A3: I have changed my mind about some of these things, especially due to the warranted criticism from the left of our party. I want to emphasize that we need to move beyond Merkel. It matters who is governing, and the next decade is about how we design the future of this country - the Social Democratic Party can do it best.
F3: The pivot is noted by many, after you’ve openly embraced the GroKo earlier, and while the base is happier, onlookers doubt your political integrity. Criticism of the woman whose government you work for also doesn’t come off as too stately.
[-0.025, Linke -0.005, CDU +0.02, FDP +0.01, SPD in Meckpom: -0.002] Merkelism -2

Q20A3 wenn (3 von Q1A3/Q1A4, Q2A1/Q2A4, Q26A1/Q26A4, Q7MitteA2, Q13A1), nicht Q3A1 [ProGroko]
A3: A change in government with a new beginning for Germany is possible: the chancellorship of a Social Democrat has become a real prospect. One thing is clear - three GroKo’s back-to-back wouldn’t be healthy for Germany’s democracy. No one wants to continue this coalition after 2021.
F3: Disavowing a new Groko is a popular move, and it calms the fears of your party’s left wing after you’ve defended the coalition time and time again. Laschet is quick to hit on your pivot, as well as your refusal to disavow Red-Red-Green - hopefully you won’t need him for your government.
[SPD +0.01, Linke -0.005, CDU +0.012]

Q28LinksA2 wenn Q1A2/Q1A3, Q2A1/Q2A4/Q26A1/Q26A4, nicht Q3A1
A2: As it says in our principal guidelines: „Committed to the people, in the proud tradition of democratic socialism, with a sense for reality and energy, the German Social Democrats are accepting their quest in the world of the 21st century.“ Germany is a European stronghold of grand capital – ultimately, we need to overcome the capitalist economy.
F2: What, first you are defending the Grand Coalition, now you rediscover your marxist loyalties? Merkel is very unnerved by your comments, and even left-wingers in your party are confused and tell you to ease it up with the class warfare. If you wanted to renew the party you should’ve done so with other avenues, but you’ve seriously overshot your goal here.
[-0.05, Linke -0.01, CDU +0.03, FDP +0.02, Grüne +0.005] Merkelism -2

Q31A1 wenn (4 von Q1A3/Q1A4, Q2A1/Q2A4, Q26A1/Q26A4, Q7MitteA2, Q13A1, Q20A4), nicht Q20A3
A1: Mrs. Baerbock has not proven herself in the executive. While some attacks against her were too harsh, she was rightfully criticized for her bonus payments during Covid. Something like this is owed to the people who were doing remarkable work during the pandemic - her foolish statements and lack of care there show that experience is a positive, to avoid such mistakes.
F1: “Yes, but what kind of experience is it?” she retorts. With your condescending tone,  Baerbock is able to brand you and Laschet as “Mr. GroKo’s”, standing out with a passionate plea for a change in the standstill politics of the Grand Coalition. The viewership at home overwhelmingly think she has won, giving her a last bout of momentum that could cost you this thing for good.
[Grüne +0.05, SPD -0.04, CDU -0.02, FDP +0.01]

Q7A3 wenn Q4A4 und Q6A2
A3: I do believe that good governance is our primary task as politicians. That said, I do see the merit of the criticism from the left of our party, after all, I did lose to Norbert and Saskia due to this trend. To keep our party united, I am going to stand steadfast by our progressive platform, whilst utilizing my stately demeanor.
F3: Norbert and Saskia appreciate your candor, and while some do notice a certain pivot after public criticisms from the leftist ranks, you embark on this tightrope nonetheless. As of now though, you need to work on your attitude - right now, the media negatively notes a more aggressive demeanor than usual. At least the party is united.
[+0.005, CDU -0.005, Grüne +0.01] Merkelism 0

AGGRESSIVER SCHOLZ CYOA

Q9A4 wenn 2 von (Q4A4, Q6A2, Q8A1)
A4: Let’s not mince any words - I’m not an attack dog, neither do I want to be one. I will congratulate both of them on getting nominated. I’m looking forward to a fair election campaign between the three of us!
F4: You haven’t really refrained from attacks so far, though maybe paddling it back a bit is prudent. Some people make fun of you for calling this a three-way race, but your opponents return the courtesy of trying to keep the campaign clean. Meanwhile, Baerbock keeps surging, at the expense of Laschet.
[-0.005, andere Effekte wie sonst] Merkelism +1



Q16A4 wenn (4 von: Q4A4, Q6A2, Q8A1, Q9A1, Q11A2)
A4: Just visiting these areas is not enough! I have to get in there with the rescue teams. I want to be seen as a man of action, with rubber boots, and shovels and all. Get me some cameras, and some impactful photos with the local fire departments.
F4: It’s a gutsy move, but with your newfound bombast, your Schröder-imitation hits the spot with a good amount of voters in other parts of the country. Meanwhile, Laschet is pictured boyishly laughing while visiting the affected areas and Baerbock, still reeling from a plagiarism scandal, is nowhere to be seen.
[+0.04, anderes wie gehabt] Merkelism -1

Q16A4 wenn Schröder
A4: Just visiting these areas is not enough! I have to get in there with the rescue teams. I want to be seen as a man of action, with rubber boots, and shovels and all. Get me some cameras, and some impactful photos with the local fire departments.
F4: It’s a gutsy move, but as Gerhard Schröder actually joins you on the campaign trail,  nostalgic 2002 voters associate you as a man of action and responsibility - much different from Laschet, who is pictured boyishly laughing while visiting the affected areas and Baerbock, still reeling from a plagiarism scandal, nowhere to be seen.
[+0.05, anderes wie gehabt] Merkelism -2

Q19A3 wenn (4 von: Q4A4, Q6A2, Q8A1, Q9A1, Q11A2)
A3: What we need in Germany is composure. There’s no need to attack anyone. I will simply keep doing what I’m doing and show myself as the calm, competent alternative. My promise is predictability.
F3: In a time where leaders like Boris Johnson, Erdoğan, Bolsonaro or Trump raise hell, this is the kind of politician people crave for. Until now, you’ve been more active and forceful than that - but maybe with the new circumstances of the race, this new image is worth it.
[+0.025, anderes wie gehabt] Merkelism +1

Q30 wenn (4 von: Q4A4, Q6A2, Q8A1, Q9A1, Q11A2)
A3: What we need in Germany is composure. There’s no need to attack anyone. I will simply keep doing what I’m doing and show myself as the calm, competent alternative. My promise is predictability.
F3: Olaf, you need to become <i>more</i> visible, not less, verdammt. With many people seeing this as a race between the moderate Laschet and the exciting Baerbock, you just disappear into the background even more so than before. Saskia and Norbert are unhappy about your inaction, as others have to pick up the slack.
[-0.03, CDU +0.01, Grüne +0.02] Merkelism +1
A4: Both Laschet and Baerbock have shown their incompetence in the past weeks and frankly disqualified themselves in this race. If we want to catch back the attention of voters, we need to raise hell about this. I’m going to call out their failings at every opportunity, contrasting it with the positive record I have accrued in government.
F4: You haven’t really pulled any punches so far, but your intensified blows against both of your opponents gets  you back into the headlines. Your favorability sinks along with theirs - to gain are probably the populists, salivating at the mudslinging.
[-0.005, CDU -0.02, Grüne -0.03, AfD +0.025, Linke +0.02]
Q22A3 wenn (5 von: Q4A4, Q6A2, Q8A1, Q9A1, Q11A2, Q19A1, Q19A2, Q30A1, Q30A2, Q30A4)
A3: Wolfgang just told me, of course the prosecutor is a CDU member! The life elixir of conservatives was always the strings with which they pave the way for lobbyists into government. Nothing is holy for the party with the C in its name - this right here is a serious case of instrumentalizing our judicial organs, and I’m going to hit back hard!
F3: Give’em Hell, Scholzi. You mirror the words of NoWaBo - while members of all parties join in condemning you for your defensiveness, the media can’t ignore the allegations of violations against judicial independence. By taking the bull by its horns, you might actually take down the CDU with you, if anything comes from this investigation.
[-0.01, CDu -0.03]

Q24 wenn (5 von: Q4A4, Q6A2, Q8A1, Q9A1, Q11A2, Q19A1, Q19A2, Q30A1, Q30A2, Q30A4, Q22A3)
A1: The nerves are on edge with Armin Laschet. He has repeatedly criticized me for nonsense, as he did with Annalena Baerbock earlier this year. This is all to avert the public's eyes from the fact that his crisis management is a constant failure. Be it the egregious corruption within his party, the covid-response or the destructive floods in NRW, earlier this year.
F1: What a blow! However, Laschet expected your attacks, and quickly falls back to disavow the mudslinging you’re resorting to. Annalena Baerbock appreciates your defense of her, but prefers to do her own thing. While your criticism holds value, your attacks seem to have backfired, as Laschet walks away as a narrow winner of the Triell.
A4: Actually, I’ve changed my mind. By holding myself back and standing steadfast against the mudslinging, I will trust on my instincts as a seasoned politician to rise above the pack.
F4: You’ve been in politics for countless years, and even before that, you’ve been a lawyer. You know how the game works - that said, to viewers at home, you seem robotic and uncomfortable. The Scholzomat seems to have suffered a short circuit. It wasn’t a disaster, but Baerbock seems to have persuaded the viewers with her earnesty…


Q31 wenn (5 von: Q4A4, Q6A2, Q8A1, Q9A1, Q11A2, Q19A1, Q19A2, Q30A1, Q30A2, Q30A4, Q22A3)
A1: Mrs. Baerbock has not proven herself in the executive. While some attacks against her were too harsh, she was rightfully criticized for her bonus payments during Covid. Something like this is owed to the people who were doing remarkable work during the pandemic - her foolish statements and lack of care there show that experience is a positive, to avoid such mistakes.
F1: Despite her encountered popularity, your voter base is very uncomfortable with you resorting to such a condescending, almost sexist tone. Baerbock is able to easily retort, appealing to a change in the political landscape and decency in the political discourse. She and Laschet tie, while you simply bombed. Sorry, Olaf.
A4: Actually, I’ve changed my mind. By holding myself back and standing steadfast against the mudslinging, I will trust on my instincts as a seasoned politician to rise above the pack.
F4: You’ve been in politics for countless years, and even before that, you’ve been a lawyer. You know how the game works - that said, to viewers at home, you seem robotic and uncomfortable. The Scholzomat seems to have suffered a short circuit. It wasn’t a disaster, but Baerbock seems to have persuaded the viewers with her earnesty…
Q32A4 wenn 4 von: Q4A4, Q6A2, Q8A1, Q9A1, Q11A2, Q19A3 o. Q30A4, Q22A3
A4: Actually, you know what? This election needs something else. Let’s turn some heads and stick out - I will attack Laschet and Baerbock whenever an opportunity presents itself. That way, I can sharpen my profile and show myself as the most competent candidate.
F4: Olaf, are you sure? Well, it’s your campaign… your attacks are alright, but they seem unfocussed and vague. As Laschet takes you to task on cum-ex and the Wirecard affair, your defensiveness gets embarrassing for even the moderators. Laschet and Baerbock get good marks, while you’ve faltered. Told you so!

Q32A4 wenn: Q4A4, Q6A2, Q8A1, Q9A1, Q11A2, Q19A3 o. Q30A4, Q22A3 & Merkelism unter 15.
A4: Actually, you know what? I’m tired of the games. Let’s get real - my opponents are dimwits, unable to govern this country to the heights it can aspire to. I am the only candidate viable as a chancellor, and I’m not afraid to take the electorate to task over this!
F4: A long time ago, there was a politician called the <i>Scholzomat</i>. He was highly regarded, valued for his prudence and moderation. As the chancellery waived in his direction, he held his prospects up close - but failed to resist the urge. He got swallowed by the imposing darkness, tempting him into rage and fury. In a brazen meltdown over the scandals haunting his legacy, he threw himself into the fire, along with the career that tempted him into oblivion. The Scholzomat was no more; rejected, forgotten. Few whisper, he might resurface some day, plotting for nefarious revenge…

Q31A1 wenn Q9A3, Q19A1 o. Q30A1/Q30A4 [Scholz attackiert Baerbock]
A1: Mrs. Baerbock has not proven herself in the executive. While some attacks against her were too harsh, she was rightfully criticized for her bonus payments during Covid. Something like this is owed to the people who were doing remarkable work during the pandemic - her foolish statements and lack of care there show that experience is a positive, to avoid such mistakes.
F1: You continue to hit her on the experience angle, as does Laschet, but both of you seem condescending. Baerbock is able to position herself as an outsider, an agent of change - and as the polls roll in, ironically, you seem to have increased her popularity. You and Laschet seem to have overdone it, getting middling grades.

SCHOLZ KOMPETENZ CYOA
Competence-Counter. Starts at 13, Competence-answers add one, Incompetence-answers deduct one.
When competence below 7: Merkelism nerf by 1.
When competence below 4: Merkelism nerf by 2.
When competence above 15: Merkelism boost by 1.
When competence above 19: Merkelism boost by 2.
Competence-answers: EQ1A1, EQ1A4 - Q4A2 - Q6A3 - Q9A4 - Q11A2 - Q12A3 - Q13A3, A13A4 - Q17A2 - Q18A2 - Q19A3 - Q21A1 - Q22A4
Incompetence-answers: Q2A3 - EQ1A2, EQ1A3 - Q4A4 - Q6A2, Q6A4 - Q27Netzwerk A3 - Q28linksA2 - Q8A4 - Q11A4 - Q13A1 - Q16A1 - Q17A4 - Q18A1, Q18A4 - EQ5A4 - Q30A3

Q22A1 wenn comp<7
A1: Let’s be frank. Wolfgang just told me, the prosecutor in this case is active in the CDU. The prosecution here could have just sent a written request for information. Now they’ve chosen another path. Everyone may judge that for themselves.
F1: While it’s probably no coincidence that everyone involved in the investigation is close to the CDU, your political opponents smell weakness in your snark. Members of all parties condemn your response, as your job performance takes a further nosedive. Meanwhile, Wolfgang is now also being investigated due to leaking this connection.

Q22A1 wenn comp>20
A1: Let’s be frank. Wolfgang just told me, the prosecutor in this case is active in the CDU. The prosecution here could have just sent a written request for information. Now they’ve chosen another path. Everyone may judge that for themselves.
F1: While it’s probably no coincidence that everyone involved in the investigation is close to the CDU, your political opponents smell weakness in your snark. Members of all parties condemn your response, poking a few holes in your otherwise stellar approval rating. Meanwhile, Wolfgang is now also being investigated due to leaking this connection.


Q24 wenn comp<7
A1: The nerves are on edge with Armin Laschet. He has repeatedly criticized me for nonsense, as he did with Annalena Baerbock earlier this year. This is all to avert the public's eyes from the fact that his crisis management is a constant failure. Be it the egregious corruption within his party, the covid-response or the destructive floods in NRW, earlier this year.
F1: Your sharp tone is unexpected - Laschet is taken aback, caught by surprise. He feels personally slighted and gets defensive. That said, Annalena Baerbock isn’t slow to point out your own failures and middling record in government. It seems like you aren’t really far off from Laschet’s clumsiness, as The Greens receive another batch of momentum.
A2: For me it's clear: tax rebates for high earners, as the CDU proposes, are irresponsible and immoral. We've already taken on 400 Billion Euros in debt to bring us through this crisis. To now propose a tax decrease, just imagine that! This is unjust to the nurses, the teachers, the coal miners and the children in this country; we owe them more Respect!
F2: A classic line. By combining Social Democratic ideals with a competent rebuttal of Laschet's tax policies, you make it seem as though the SPD really did revitalize itself - that said, with a middling job approval, there’s not much beef behind these policies on your end. The numbers after the debate show Baerbock at the top, with you narrowly behind.

Q24 wenn Comp >20
A1: The nerves are on edge with Armin Laschet. He has repeatedly criticized me for nonsense, as he did with Annalena Baerbock earlier this year. This is all to avert the public's eyes from the fact that his crisis management is a constant failure. Be it the egregious corruption within his party, the covid-response or the destructive floods in NRW, earlier this year.
F1: If anyone can make this attack right now, it’s you. Backed up by a solid record of governance, your comparison to his performance stings like thousand little needles. Annalena Baerbock appreciates your defense of her, and the both of you gang up to hand Laschet an embarrassing defeat. People really got to see a new side of you today… but they dig it.


Q19 wenn comp<7
A2: Armin Laschet is our main opponent - he’s the one we have to beat if I want to become chancellor. Competence is a big factor for many middle-of-the-road voters, and his crisis management is consistently subpar and strange. We need to emphasize this part of our ad campaign.
F2: Laschet has made a fool of himself several times, and dragging this into the spotlight should help shake up this race. That said, you haven’t done much to convince people that you’re much different, and the core of the Union’s voter base might stick with them until the end.
A3: What we need in Germany is composure. There’s no need to attack anyone. I will simply keep doing what I’m doing and show myself as the calm, competent alternative. My promise is predictability.
F3: That’s the recipe, right there. Calm and steady. In a time where leaders like Boris Johnson, Erdoğan, Bolsonaro or Trump raise hell, you’re exactly the kind of politician people crave for. Your favorability numbers receive a sorely needed rise.

Q19A2 wenn comp>20
A2: Armin Laschet is our main opponent - he’s the one we have to beat if I want to become chancellor. Competence is a big factor for many middle-of-the-road voters, and his crisis management is consistently subpar and strange. We need to emphasize this part of our ad campaign.
F2: Your crisis management has already turned many heads - and with Laschet making a fool of himself time and time again, you just shine even brighter by contrast. This pitch helps entice the classic, undogmatic centrist that is the German median voter - even some CDU colleagues must be secretly hoping for you to win the election.

Q30A2 wenn comp<7
A2: Armin Laschet is our main opponent - he’s the one we have to beat if I want to become chancellor. With his numerous blunders in his crisis response, we can raise hell about his incompetence. There’s a certain kind of voter who might jump ship to us, if Laschet proves to be a bad successor to Merkel.
F2: Does dragging this race into the mud really help you? In light of your own blunders, these attacks are of muted effects. Any momentum you might gain from Laschet’s weakness is bound to be shared with the Greens.

Q30 wenn comp>20
A1: Annalena Baerbock is vulnerable right now, in the light of all her scandals. If we take off the velvet gloves and emphasize our progressive platform, we can show them: I am the man who can beat Laschet to modernize this country for good.
F1: This strategy is somewhat successful - the Greens are losing some ground in the polls, and you seem like a good man with a solid record. That said, environmentalists might always prefer the Greens.
A4: Both Laschet and Baerbock have shown their incompetence in the past weeks and frankly disqualified themselves in this race. If we want to catch back the attention of voters, we need to raise hell about this. I’m going to call out their failings at every opportunity, contrasting it with the positive record I have accrued in government.
F4: On paper, this seems decent - you do catch a few more headlines after all. You can contrast your record with those of your opponents, but you do risk damage to your own stellar image, as your cross-partisan popularity takes a small dive. Don’t poison the well of voters you could be drinking out of!

Q31A1 wenn comp<7
A1: Mrs. Baerbock has not proven herself in the executive. While some attacks against her were too harsh, she was rightfully criticized for her bonus payments during Covid. Something like this is owed to the people who were doing remarkable work during the pandemic - her foolish statements and lack of care there show that experience is a positive, to avoid such mistakes.
F1: Your surprisingly sharp tone doesn’t convince. You seem judgmental and condescending. Baerbock is able to easily retort, showcasing Laschet’s and your middling approval ratings. You seem to have overdone it - the Green frontwoman has cleaned up her act and turned the narrative about her scandals around.

Q31A1 wenn comp>20
A1: Mrs. Baerbock has not proven herself in the executive. While some attacks against her were too harsh, she was rightfully criticized for her bonus payments during Covid. Something like this is owed to the people who were doing remarkable work during the pandemic - her foolish statements and lack of care there show that experience is a positive, to avoid such mistakes.
F1: You really have taken off the velvet gloves here - while some you do have a point, all in all, you seem a bit condescending. Baerbock is taken aback by your attacks and calls them sexist, as the musdlinging devolves deeper. Everyone’s image here suffers - you could be considered somewhat of a winner, if only by default.

Q32A1 wenn comp>20
A1: My focus will be solidarity. The tendency of disintegration of our societies into polarized camps that won't trust each other – that's the opposite of what we need in Germany. We need more cohesion – not less! Our politics have to serve everyone, even those who fear the coming change. Only if we are united can we solve the biggest problems of our time.
F1: Not a bad idea - many Germans worry about the polarization of society, and this is a topic close to your brand and heart. With your good record on governance and an empathetic plea, you draw a nice contrast to a trigger-happy Laschet. You clearly hold an edge in most polls, while your CDU opponent lacks behind with everyone but ardent Union partisans.

SCHOLZ WIRTSCHAFTSPOLITIK CYOA
Q6 wenn EQ1A1 (bazooka)
A3: As Finance Minister, I have been responsible for the help our economy received during these difficult times. Now, I will call for additional financial help for people affected by the lockdowns. The culture industry - museums, theaters, cinemas and the like - especially need urgent help.
F3: Your measures as Finance Minister have generally been popular during the crisis, especially your usage of the “Bazooka”. It helps to remind people of your leadership. Meanwhile, the Greens are enjoying a surge, though largely at the expense of the CDU/CSU.
A4: It’s fiscally irresponsible to give out even more government aid than we already have. I’m worried about the national debt and inflation down the line - the aid we have already given out is enough. The Schwarze Null is the law of the land.
F4: What? Are you Swabian or why are you this stingy, all of a sudden? Your measures before were widely popular, and there aren’t many people worried about fiscal stability at this moment. Your pivot gets viciously attacked, mainly by the Left and Green Parties, who are enjoying a surge in the polls.


Q6 wenn EQ1A2 (schwarze null)
A3: As Finance Minister, I have been responsible for the help our economy received during these difficult times. Now, I will call for additional financial help for people affected by the lockdowns. The culture industry - museums, theaters, cinemas and the like - especially need urgent help.
F3: Your insistence on the Black Zero at the start of this pandemic has rankled many - a pivot here might just be what you need to fix your image. Meanwhile, the Greens are enjoying a surge, though largely at the expense of the CDU/CSU.
A4: It’s fiscally irresponsible to give out even more government aid than we already have. I’m worried about the national debt and inflation down the line - the aid we have already given out is enough. The Schwarze Null is the law of the land.
F4: Olaf, we are in a pandemic, why die on this hill? There aren’t many people worried about fiscal stability at this moment - even your own party criticizes the inaction of your Ministry. This stance is certain to be a major detriment to your chances. The Greens and The Left seem like sensible alternatives for those pissed off at your conservative streak.

Q28LinksA2 wenn 2 von EQ1A2, Q5A3, Q6A4 (fiscal con)
A2: As it says in our principal guidelines: „Committed to the people, in the proud tradition of democratic socialism, with a sense for reality and energy, the German Social Democrats are accepting their quest in the world of the 21st century.“ Germany is a European stronghold of grand capital – ultimately, we need to overcome the capitalist economy.
F2: Pivoting to marxism, when you’ve espoused a fiscally conservative streak just weeks prior? Everyone is skeptical at this stance. Especially centrists doubt your competency and integrity: a stingy socialist, as their Minister of Finances?


Q28LinksA2 wenn EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1 (anticap)
A2: As it says in our principal guidelines: „Committed to the people, in the proud tradition of democratic socialism, with a sense for reality and energy, the German Social Democrats are accepting their quest in the world of the 21st century.“ Germany is a European stronghold of grand capital – ultimately, we need to overcome the capitalist economy.
F2: Stamokap-Scholz has returned! To many, it seems horrifying. Even though they share your convictions, even the influential left wing of the party is telling you to ease it up with the class warfare. There are a few calls from Die Linke for a „reunification“ of the leftist bloc, but centrists doubt you - the Seeheimer Circle is publicly rankled at your marxist resurgence.

Q7MitteA1 wenn 2 von EQ1A2, Q4A1, Q5A1 (fiscon)
A1: Frankly, I disavow any talk of „socialism“ and the likes. We need results, and to gain them, we need to work from within the system, with reforms where they are necessary. There's no „left“ or „right“ economic policy, there's only the correct economic policy! As Schmidt succinctly put it: “He who has visions should go to the doctor”.
F1: With your continued fiscal conservatism, you get a public rebuke by Kevin Kühnert, as well as countless other young, reformist Social Democrats and Socialists in your party. Schröder nowadays is more unpopular than popular, and this continued intra-party bickering makes many people squeamish about ever supporting the SPD again. Die Linke surges in polls.

Q7MitteA1 wenn EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1 [anticap]
A1: Frankly, I disavow any talk of „socialism“ and the likes. We need results, and to gain them, we need to work from within the system, with reforms where they are necessary. There's no „left“ or „right“ economic policy, there's only the correct economic policy! As Schmidt succinctly put it: “He who has visions should go to the doctor”.
F1: What a strange turn of events. Your harsh tone is sharply rebuked by Saskia, Norbert and Kevin, as well as countless other young, reformist Social Democrats and Socialists in your party. They feel betrayed, after goading them into thinking you were, at the very least, a steadfast Keynesian. The intra-party bickering makes many people squeamish about ever supporting the SPD again.

Q12 wenn 4 von EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1, Q28LinksA2, EQ3A3, Q11A3 (anticap)
A2: The tax burden in this country is too high, it’s hurting our hard-working population. The Soli should be abolished, and other taxes for the middle classes be cut, whilst raising the minimum wage. Through better wages and higher purchasing power, we can rebuild this economy without endangering the Schwarze Null.
F2: In the light of your leftist streak of the last months, this proposal receives mostly head scratching. Baerbock takes the initiative to attack you, but even your newfound leftist allies are tired of small-step-reforms: they yearn for change in the economic consensus, not a tax cutting-pivot.
A4: We can not waive away new investments or cut benefits. Higher taxes for very high-income earners, adjustments on inheritance taxes, a wealth tax as well as higher investments through taking on debts are all needed to invest in our future. We are living in a crisis without precedent, and what we need now is solidarity.
F4: The SPD really did turn left, it seems. You’re steadfast in reviving the promise of “democratic socialism” for your base - going big and even outflanking the Greens here could stop their momentum and make serious dents in the farther Left. Of course, the continued attacks from fiscal conservatives are to be expected.

Q12 wenn 4 von EQ1A2, Q5A3, Q6A4, Q7MitteA1, EQ3A1, Q11A3 (fiscon)
A2: The tax burden in this country is too high, it’s hurting our hard-working population. The Soli should be abolished, and other taxes for the middle classes be cut, whilst raising the minimum wage. Through better wages and higher purchasing power, we can rebuild this economy without endangering the Schwarze Null.
F2: This is a centrist proposal much in line with your policies so far, which could help to win over more conservatives. That said, you’re relentlessly attacked from your left, not just by Baerbock, but also inside your own party - the base isn’t down for more Agenda-2010 politics.
A4: We can not waive away new investments or cut benefits. Higher taxes for very high-income earners, adjustments on inheritance taxes, a wealth tax as well as higher investments through taking on debts are all needed to invest in our future. We are living in a crisis without precedent, and what we need now is solidarity.
F4: Leftist tax proposals are a big pivot for you in light of your record, but they are what you might need to win back the base. Outflanking the Greens here could stop their momentum, but be cautious that the flip-flopping doesn’t hurt you with the average voter.



EQ4A4 wenn 4 von EQ1A2, Q5A3, Q6A4, Q7MitteA1, EQ3A1, Q11A3, Q12A2 (fiscon)
A4: Apartments are people's homes, not investments. We can’t afford half measures: we need a federal rent freeze in regions where the capitalist market failed, lower existing costs, if necessary with expropriations. We need new social housing units and the renovation of old buildings - we can even look at legalizing squatting, if it serves the reappropriation of misused spaces.
F4: “<i>Genosse Olaf - Conservation or Revolution?</i>” the media asks - accompanying it, a contrast between the certain picture of 26 year old, curly-haired marxist Olaf Scholz and your bald-headed current you. The anticapitalist pivot confuses many - Laschet wastes no time to deride you as no better than Kevin Kühnert with reappropriations. At least urban leftists might feel mollified.

EQ4A4 wenn 4 von EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1, Q28LinksA2, EQ3A3, Q11A3, Q12A4 (anticap)
A4: Apartments are people's homes, not investments. We can’t afford half measures: we need a federal rent freeze in regions where the capitalist market failed, lower existing costs, if necessary with expropriations. We need new social housing units and the renovation of old buildings - we can even look at legalizing squatting, if it serves the reappropriation of misused spaces.
F4: “<i>Genosse Olaf - The Revolutionary is back</i>” the media reports - accompanying it, a certain picture of 26 year old, curly-haired marxist Olaf Scholz. Your conservative opponents deride reappropriations as wildly unconstitutional, with some even bringing up your ties to East Germany in the 1980’s. You’re all-in with the Left now.

Q15 wenn 6 von EQ1A2, Q5A3, Q6A4, Q7MitteA1, EQ3A1, Q11A3, Q12A2, Q13A1 (fiscon)
A2: This is about respect: the whole system needs to be reformed from the ground up. All sanctions for the long-term unemployed have to be consequently abolished, bureaucracy has to be reduced, and there needs to be a raise in services: I promise at least 100€ more paid out, per person, per month.
F2: Finally: the SPD is ready to move on from the Hartz IV system. This was a red line for many skeptical leftists. That said, this high number is an extreme pivot- it immediately draws fire from Laschet, accusing you of ‘promoting laziness’, and even your Seeheimer allies privately take you aside to think it over.
A3: The SPD created the Hartz IV system, and while there are some parts of it that should be tweaked, we stand by the core principles of this job market reform. There should be a one-time payment to help them get through this difficult Covid time though.
F3: It’s not surprising that you wish to conserve the Hartz IV-system, but the Parlamentarische Linke is deflated. As the popularity of it falters broadly, a one-time payment is not the change people are looking for - and the Greens seem much more sensible to your critics. It seems you have abandoned the left for other waters…

Q15 wenn 7 von EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1, Q28LinksA2, EQ3A3, Q11A3, Q12A4, Q13A3, EQ4A4) [anticap]
A2: This is about respect: the whole system needs to be reformed from the ground up. All sanctions for the long-term unemployed have to be consequently abolished, bureaucracy has to be reduced, and there needs to be a raise in services: I promise at least 100€ more paid out, per person, per month.
F2: It’s unsurprising to those who have paid attention, but now it’s official: the SPD is ready to move on from the Hartz IV system. This has been a red line for many leftist voters, who are happy to see you on their side. Laschet of course immediatels accuses you of ‘promoting laziness’, and even the Seeheimer-wing starts to murmur over Social Democratic “revisionism”.
A3: The SPD created the Hartz IV system, and while there are some parts of it that should be tweaked, we stand by the core principles of this job market reform. There should be a one-time payment to help them get through this difficult Covid time though.
F3: A bombshell just dropped - “Scholz stands by Hartz IV”. Leadership is unnerved: do you really wish to stand by this relic of the Agenda 2010? The Greens and the Left waste no time attacking you for “betraying the working class”, to decent success. A one-time payment just isn’t the change people are looking for.

Q20 wenn 6 von EQ1A2, Q5A3, Q6A4, Q7MitteA1, EQ3A1, Q11A3, Q12A2, Q13A1, Q15A3 [fiscon]
A1: I am sympathetic to a leftist-progressive alliance. I will not rule out a coalition with the Left, because this partisan pot-banging isn’t healthy for a Democracy. We have to have respect before the voters, only they can decide who will govern Germany, and what Germany needs is a turning point.
F1: It’s surprising for a moderate politician like you to entertain this option - for the first time in a Federal election, a government participation of Die Linke seems feasible. With the party’s dubious past and Foreign Policy, it’s a prospect that scares many moderates, which Laschet is trying to profit off of. Die Linke themselves are doubtful about a coalition, in light of your record.
A4: A coalition with the Left is hard to imagine for me. Every government in Germany has to commit clearly to the transatlantic partnership, the membership in Nato and for a strong and sovereign European Union. Instead, I want to promise a fair treatment to the Liberals of the FDP in possible coalition talks.
F4: It’s not a big surprise, but assurances silence any attacks from Laschet. Still - certain parts of your traditional base are hoping for a more progressive government, and Red-Green seems to be unfeasible. The FDP under Christian Lindner, they’ll drive a hard bargain, but maybe your advances can soften them up.


Q20 wenn 8 von EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1, Q28LinksA2, EQ3A3, Q11A3, Q12A4, Q13A3, EQ4A4, Q15A2/Q15A4, Q19A4 [anticap]
A1: I am sympathetic to a leftist-progressive alliance. I will not rule out a coalition with the Left, because this partisan pot-banging isn’t healthy for a Democracy. We have to have respect before the voters, only they can decide who will govern Germany, and what Germany needs is a turning point.
F1: Considering your record, you seem to be serious about your Red-Red-Green sympathies. Die Linke is hot on a government participation with you, and for the first time in German history, it seems feasible. With the parties’ dubious past and Foreign Policy, it’s a prospect that scares many moderates - and of course, Laschet hits you hard on it.
A4: A coalition with the Left is hard to imagine for me. Every government in Germany has to commit clearly to the transatlantic partnership, the membership in Nato and for a strong and sovereign European Union. Instead, I want to promise a fair treatment to the Liberals of the FDP in possible coalition talks.
F4: This is the traditional party line, but considering your recent leftist streak, this is a major surprise for most. Many advisors wanted you to keep your options open, but it’s true Die Linke is pretty controversial. The FDP under Christian Lindner openly prefers the CDU as a coalition partner - what’s your plan here?

Q24A2 wenn Q12A2 [taxes]
A2: For me it's clear: tax rebates for high earners, as the CDU proposes, are irresponsible and immoral. We've already taken on 400 Billion Euros in debt to bring us through this crisis. To now propose a tax decrease, just imagine that! This is unjust to the nurses, the teachers, the coal miners and the children in this country; we owe them more Respect!
F2: A classic message, but one that is muddled - you yourself have proposed tax decreases this election cycle! As Laschet points out the inconsistency, it’s Baerbock who can profit off of your embarrassing flip-flop, stealing your thunder on social policies. Polling at the end shows her to be the winner of the Triell.

Q24A2 wenn nicht Q12A2 aber 6 von EQ1A2, Q5A3, Q6A4, Q7MitteA1, EQ3A1, Q11A3, Q13A1, Q15A3, Q20A4) [fiscon]
A2: For me it's clear: tax rebates for high earners, as the CDU proposes, are irresponsible and immoral. We've already taken on 400 Billion Euros in debt to bring us through this crisis. To now propose a tax decrease, just imagine that! This is unjust to the nurses, the teachers, the coal miners and the children in this country; we owe them more Respect!
F2: A classic line, but considering you’ve stood for a neoliberal economic take before, it’s a bit disingenuous. Partisans seem to buy it, others not so much. In the end, Baerbock seems to have increased her chops on social policy enough to outshine you as the economically leftist option. She wins the debate, narrowly ahead of you.


Q24A2 wenn 8 von EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1, Q28LinksA2, EQ3A3, Q11A3, Q12A4, Q13A3, EQ4A4, Q15A2/Q15A4, Q19A4, Q20A1) [anticap]
A2: For me it's clear: tax rebates for high earners, as the CDU proposes, are irresponsible and immoral. We've already taken on 400 Billion Euros in debt to bring us through this crisis. To now propose a tax decrease, just imagine that! This is unjust to the nurses, the teachers, the coal miners and the children in this country; we owe them more Respect!
F2: A classic line, but one that empathetically combines your policies into a good message. As Laschet and you are having the most fundamental economic debate of this century, Baerbock can’t even interject. Using your knowledge on fiscal and labor issues, you cleverly outmaneuver the CDU - pulling narrowly ahead of them in post-debate polling.

Q25A2 wenn 6 von EQ1A2, Q5A3, Q6A4, Q7MitteA1, EQ3A1, Q11A3, Q12A2, Q13A1, Q15A3, Q20A4) [fiscon]
A2: As a former vice chair of the Jusos myself, I want to bury the hatchet with Kevin Kühnert. He’s a man of great political talent, and by appearing at his side, I want to show our left wing and the youth in this country that the SPD is a renewed party that can tackle the problems of today and tomorrow.
F2: You embark on a folksy rally in Kevin’s very own constituency in Berlin, Tempelhof-Schöneberg. The reception by the Jusos is middling, considering your neoliberal streak, but showing your loyalty to even the left wing of your party might help you keep them in the fold. You return to Potsdam, assured that “Scholz will tackle it”.

Q25A2 wenn 9 von EQ1A2, Q5A3, Q6A4, Q7MitteA1, EQ3A1, Q11A3, Q12A2, Q13A1, Q15A3, Q20A4) [very fiscon]
A2: As a former vice chair of the Jusos myself, I want to bury the hatchet with Kevin Kühnert. He’s a man of great political talent, and by appearing at his side, I want to show our left wing and the youth in this country that the SPD is a renewed party that can tackle the problems of today and tomorrow.
F2: Unfortunately, Kühnert prefers to campaign alone - he doesn’t want to associate with your centrist brand. Instead, an array of classic old school Social Democrats like Gerhard Schröder, Franz Müntefering and Sigmar Gabriel offer to host you a raucous final rally. You return to Potsdam with hope, that despite the difficulties, “Scholz will tackle it”.

Q25A2 wenn 8 von EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1, Q28LinksA2, EQ3A3, Q11A3, Q12A4, Q13A3, EQ4A4, Q15A2/Q15A4, Q19A4, Q20A1) [anticap]
A2: As a former vice chair of the Jusos myself, I want to bury the hatchet with Kevin Kühnert. He’s a man of great political talent, and by appearing at his side, I want to show our left wing and the youth in this country that the SPD is a renewed party that can tackle the problems of today and tomorrow.
F2: Kevin is happy to take you up on that offer - you embark on a folksy rally in his very own constituency in Berlin, Tempelhof-Schöneberg. Hundreds of Jusos cheer you on, seeing you as a real hope to bring “freedom and socialism” to Germany. Playing on a vast array of leftist policies, you return to Potsdam with almost revolutionary fervor: “Scholz will tackle it”.

Q31A2 wenn 7 von EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1, Q28LinksA2, EQ3A3, Q11A3, Q12A4, Q13A3, EQ4A4, Q15A2/Q15A4, Q19A4, Q20A1 [anticap]
A2: If you're continually meddling with the gas prices, you show how little you care about the needs of our citizens. Higher costs of energy must be affordable for everyone. The Greens just haven't been honest about the costs their proposals would incur for people with lower incomes. Climate protection can only work in the end, if it’s socially just.
F2: This is the most effective attack you have against the Greens, echoing the concerns of many low-income voters. Baerbock accuses you of slowing down climate action, and Armin Laschet of all people comes to her aid, sensing weakness. Unfortunately, the leftist infighting has seemingly given Laschet a new shine - he holds a narrow edge over you in polls.

Q32A3 wenn 7 von EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1, Q28LinksA2, EQ3A3, Q11A3, Q12A4, Q13A3, EQ4A4, Q15A2/Q15A4, Q19A4, Q20A1 [anticap]
A3: Everyone has the right to be recognized for their hard work. The matter of Respect deals with hard material, social and economical matters, like fair wages, collective bargaining, precarious working conditions or old age poverty. We need to solve these concrete problems with a new politic of Respect, to strengthen the trust in our democracy.
F3: Your attempts at selling a modern Social Democracy with the theme of Respect are fruitful. With your insistence on economic leftism, this might be the final push you need to consolidate the center-left around you. The SPD has renewed herself - and while Laschet vehemently defends fiscal conservatism, a plurality of viewers thinks you won.

Q32A3 wenn 7 von EQ1A2, Q5A3, Q6A4, Q7MitteA1, EQ3A1, Q11A3, Q12A2, Q13A1, Q15A3, Q20A4 [fiscon]
A3: Everyone has the right to be recognized for their hard work. The matter of Respect deals with hard material, social and economical matters, like fair wages, collective bargaining, precarious working conditions or old age poverty. We need to solve these concrete problems with a new politic of Respect, to strengthen the trust in our democracy.
F3: Your attempts at selling a modern Social Democracy with the theme of Respect are admirable, but a lot of leftists are unlikely to be swayed, feeling betrayed after the neverending neoliberalism, Agenda-2010 and GroKo-politics that you of all people might embody the most. The message falls flat - Baerbock wins the debate, with you dead last.

Q6A1 wenn EQ1A4
A1: During the winter, the lockdowns were needed, and while we have to be careful not to open up too quickly, our opening strategy and vaccination campaign should make it possible for people to go to beer gardens in the summer.
F1: People like Karl Lauterbach, are still vehemently warning against a lax stance. That said, as the vaccination campaign takes hold, less and less cases are reported - this is good news for the governmental parties. Meanwhile, the Greens are enjoying a surge, though largely at the expense of the CDU/CSU.

Q18A4 wenn EQ1A4
A4: It’s a personal decision if someone wants to get vaccinated or not. We shouldn’t discriminate against people who don’t want the vaccination - any extra efforts to pressure them would go to waste.
F4: You have actively contributed financially to the development of the vaccine - why so hesitant? Some perceive this flip-flop as a <i>Querdenker</i>-sympathetic dog whistle - a bad batch of press follows, as even Karl Lauterbach publicly criticizes you.

Q13A4 wenn EQ1A4
A4: Germany’s bureaucracy is sluggish, and if we don’t meet the moment to change that now, it’ll pass. In this crisis, we have seen the necessity of a digital administration, especially looking at things like the development of new technologies like the vaccine - in partnerships between the state and private companies.
F4: An expected answer, not a bad one - improving bureaucratic processes to drive innovation is broadly popular. You have a good record involving the vaccine development, and many ailing businesses are eagerly listening to your plans to digitize bureaucracy. The FDP meanwhile drives their strategy on this issue in particular.

Ich wenn ich stundenlang an CYOA-optionen arbeite die keiner spielen wird [madman]
A1: ich will nicht mehr, ich kann nicht mehr
F1: ich halt das alles nicht mehr aus

Q17 wenn Q11A3
A3: It’s clear that we need a way more ambitious climate program. We now need a higher price for CO² and stricter emission targets, alongside an earlier exit from coal and measures to protect people from disasters like this. I am going to introduce these at the next cabinet meeting, in another round of policy proposals with Svenja Schulze.
F3: Unfortunately, the CDU/CSU outright reject your stricter proposals, and your efforts go to waste. That said, people are noticing your insistence on stricter climate goals. You might eat away at the Green base. Only blue collar workers are unnerved about their job security - and what about the energy prices? This is the issue where you could lose voters to the AfD of all things..
A4: Laschet said that because of a day like this, you don’t change politics, and I have to agree. While we have to evaluate if there’s anything we need to do, let’s not make hasty, emotionally charged decisions.
F4: Laschet is not only your opponent, he was widely criticized for his statement. Now, the criticism wraps around to you as well - especially since this seems like an extreme flip-flop after your role in the Climate Protection Act. The Green Party has an easy time painting both of you as out of touch with the current mood.

Q17 wenn Q11A4
A3: It’s clear that we need a way more ambitious climate program. We now need a higher price for CO² and stricter emission targets, alongside an earlier exit from coal and measures to protect people from disasters like this. I am going to introduce these at the next cabinet meeting, in another round of policy proposals with Svenja Schulze.
F3: You didn’t want to update the Climate Protection Act before, now everything needs to go faster? While some are happy that you’ve seen the light, this is still a pivot. Blue collar workers are unnerved about this development - they might run off to more radical options.
A4: Laschet said that because of a day like this, you don’t change politics, and I have to agree. While we have to evaluate if there’s anything we need to do, let’s not make hasty, emotionally charged decisions.
F4: With your lax stance on the environment, public figures inside your own party are refraining from commenting on this faux-pas. Both you and Laschet seem wildly out of touch - being the only credible party for ambitious climate action, Baerbock’s momentum is supercharged in the wake of this disaster, especially with young voter

Q24A3 wenn Q11A3 und Q17A3
A3: On climate change, the CDU does not have answers. Especially after the catastrophic floods this summer, it’s irresponsible to do as little as he proposes. The CDU/CSU has repeatedly denied the real demand for an improved electrical infrastructure. Someone like Mr. Laschet is sinning against the future of this country and will cost us prosperity and jobs.
F3: You seem to want to kill two flies with one foul swoop; by increasing your viability with environmentalists, you wish to discredit Laschet and inherit Green voters all in one. Baerbock calls your bluff and tries to counter, while the CDU candidate stands hopeless.  Your debate turns wonky, and in the end, viewers can’t decide who amongst you two won.

Q24A3 wenn Q11A4 und Q17A4
A3: On climate change, the CDU does not have answers. Especially after the catastrophic floods this summer, it’s irresponsible to do as little as he proposes. The CDU/CSU has repeatedly denied the real demand for an improved electrical infrastructure. Someone like Mr. Laschet is sinning against the future of this country and will cost us prosperity and jobs.
F3: Well, Olaf, neither do you. Baerbock is quick to call out your own actions during the Climate Protection Act affair, as well as your concurrence with Laschet after the floods. It’s not even close - your strategy falls flat on its face, as the Greens manage to recenter the debate around their favorite topic, recapturing the spirit of the climate summers.


Q31 wenn Q11A3 und Q17A3
A2: If you're continually meddling with the gas prices, you show how little you care about the needs of our citizens. Higher costs of energy must be affordable for everyone. The Greens just haven't been honest about the costs their proposals would incur for people with lower incomes. Climate protection can only work in the end, if it’s socially just.
F2: This is the most effective attack you have against the Greens, echoing the concerns of many low-income voters - a key part of the Social Democratic coalition. Baerbock accuses you of slowing down climate action, but retorting with your own recent environmentalist streak allows you to underscore your points, winning you the debate. Laschet isn’t far behind.
A3: The perspective the Greens propose for Germany isn't the way our country should go. Their „prohibitory politics“ would make living unaffordable in Germany. Things like banning inland-flights and a raise on gas prices are clearly clientele-politics, not fit for Germany's governing party. I want Germany to stay an industrial nation, building and exporting cars.
F3: Your take seems out of touch and strangely contradictory, considering your own environmentalist policies are quite ambitious. Between you two, Laschet manages to easily paint both of you as insensible. Taking a page out of Söder’s playbook, he gets good grades from the viewers, as a voice of reason.


Q31 wenn Q11A4 und Q17A4
A2: If you're continually meddling with the gas prices, you show how little you care about the needs of our citizens. Higher costs of energy must be affordable for everyone. The Greens just haven't been honest about the costs their proposals would incur for people with lower incomes. Climate protection can only work in the end, if it’s socially just.
F2: This is the most effective attack you have against the Greens, echoing the concerns of many low-income voters - a key part of the Social Democratic coalition. Baerbock accuses you of slowing down climate action, and the whole debate becomes somewhat of a shouting match. Laschet seems to profit off of the leftist infighting.
A3: The perspective the Greens propose for Germany isn't the way our country should go. Their „prohibitory politics“ would make living unaffordable in Germany. Things like banning inland-flights and a raise on gas prices are clearly clientele-politics, not fit for Germany's governing party. I want Germany to stay an industrial nation, building and exporting cars.
F3: You continue your conservative take on climate change, as does Laschet. The onslaught of attacks on Green ideology just seem to strengthen and motivate Baerbock all the more, and she’s able to define herself as a credible agent of change, decisively winning the debate. Leadership takes you aside afterwards, chiding you for this loss.

SCHOLZ WIRECARD CYOA

Q14A2 wenn Q8A1
A2: It’s obvious that these attacks on me are nothing but a cheap political ploy. There’s no clear evidence of any wrongdoing by me and I will fight back passionately against these allegations!
F2: You stand steadfast by your opinion - the whole thing becomes mostly a partisan issue, as the battle lines harden. Your numbers might not be good enough for you to be able to afford that… at least you’re not the only one struggling right now - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and unreported earnings.

Q14 wenn Q8A4
A2: It’s obvious that these attacks on me are nothing but a cheap political ploy. There’s no clear evidence of any wrongdoing by me and I will fight back passionately against these allegations!
F2: First you admit wrongdoing, now you lose your patience - the public is confused, and you seem quite suspicious to the public. At least you’re not the only one struggling right now - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and unreported earnings.

Q22 wenn Q29A3, oder Q8A1 und Q14A2:
+0.004, feedback gleich

SCHOLZ SOCIAL CYOA

Q21 wenn EQ2A3
A2: It’s bitter, what’s happening in Afghanistan. Many who were hoping for a better life are seeing their hopes shattered. Now we need to help those who need to be supported, because they need protection, especially women who fought for equal treatment. We’ve identified a great number of people whom we’re giving the opportunity to come to Germany.
F2: This clearly separates you from the conservative take from Laschet and his party, alongside the Greens. You continue to drive a progressive lane on refugees - it’s mostly uncontroversial among party insiders, but some Germans might be worried about another refugee crisis. Both the Union and the AfD seek to capitalize.
A4: We’re working to bring everyone worthy of protection home. However, it’s clear that refugees who’ve broken the law have to be deported back home, regardless of who rules Afghanistan. We are serious about our criteria - the Ministry of the Interior said we can’t take anymore, and that’s that. Instead, we should support them to gain aid in neighboring countries.
F4: You put up a contrast to the Greens, concurring with the Union - which comes as a minor pivot after your earlier comments about refugees. Your association with Horst Seehofer raises the eyebrows of some of your voters, but maybe you can hold off the bleeding from immigration-wary workers?


Q21A4 wenn EQ2A4
A2: It’s bitter, what’s happening in Afghanistan. Many who were hoping for a better life are seeing their hopes shattered. Now we need to help those who need to be supported, because they need protection, especially women who fought for equal treatment. We’ve identified a great number of people whom we’re giving the opportunity to come to Germany.
F2: This comes as a major pivot after your controversial comments about 2015 earlier this year. Both Laschet and Baerbock remind people of the affair, and corner you in a two-pronged attack about this flip-flop. The SPD seems to be the loser in this crisis, unable to find a clear footing on the refugee question.
A4: We’re working to bring everyone worthy of protection home. However, it’s clear that refugees who’ve broken the law have to be deported back home, regardless of who rules Afghanistan. We are serious about our criteria - the Ministry of the Interior said we can’t take anymore, and that’s that. Instead, we should support them to gain aid in neighboring countries.
F4: Taking a page from other “non-woke” Social Democrats, you seem to be committed to preventing another 2015. This could defuse the culture war - but as much as you might regain some blue collar workers from the AfD, you will also lose in young voters to the Greens. Baerbock attacks you relentlessly.

EQ5A2 wenn 4 von EQ2A4, Q11A4, Q7MitteA1, Q17A4, Q18A4
A2: We are against the legalization of illegal drugs. The risks for the individual and society are too great - instead, we should work towards addiction prevention, as well as early and suitable sanctions, that incentivise taking counseling and therapy. We do acknowledge the medical usage of Cannabis, however.
F2: You seem to consistently drive a conservative lane on social questions. While it might give you some inroads with religious people and “anti-woke” activists, significant parts of your base are close to revolting. Your idiosyncrasy also doesn’t land too well with moderate voters, who perceive you as somewhat stuck-up.

EQ6 wenn 4 von EQ2A4, Q11A4, Q7MitteA1, Q17A4, Q18A4, EQ5A2
A1: While §218 is a settled compromise from our societal discussions, we are for striking the §219a ad ban: women who are deciding on an abortion need unrestricted access to information. We also need to train more doctors and prevent pressure from abortion opponents in front of clinics.
F1: Abortion hasn’t been very salient before, but with your socially conservative streak, women’s groups were eager to hear about your stance. This may keep them in line, but other Social Democrats, especially younger people are still skeptical.
A2: We want to strike $218, 219 and 219a from the books completely. Pregnancy issues are not part of criminal law - abortion is a medical service that has to be managed as part of regular health care. The stigma has to be broken, and the supply of doctors offering abortion has to be increased.
F2: A steadfast progressive answer - unexpectedly so, after the earlier stances you’ve taken over the campaign. No one really knows what to make of this. Women’s groups stand by you, and some Jusos take this as a sign that you’re moving with the times after all. Although it’s probably the confusion that dominates headlines.
A3: The current situation is fine as is. Unborn life does have a right to be protected. Furthermore, the ad ban has already been loosened two years ago, to provide better access to information for affected women and legal certainty for doctors and hospitals, if an abortion is necessary.
F3: This stance drops as a bombshell to the media - you’re even moving right of Laschet on social issues! While a small number of activists, religious groups and even some CSU politicians praise you, your newfound stance is toxic to most of your core voters. The Greens enjoy a sizable surge at your expense, as the SPD seems to undergo a major shift in identity…
A4: We need to immediately strike § 218 and $ 219 - instead a right to free, simple and accessible abortions has to be guaranteed; state-build hospitals should be required to perform the procedure. Furthermore, with contraceptives ensuring the right for self-determination, they should be fully covered by insurance.
F4: Wait, what? You’ve stood on the right side of the spectrum on almost every issue - except for abortion, it seems. While women’s groups are cautiously surprised, no one knows what to make of this stance. Are you trying to pivot and have just overcorrected, or are you an eccentric maverick? Either way, voters are irritated.

Q32A1 wenn 5 von EQ2A4, Q11A4, Q7MitteA1, Q17A4, Q18A4, EQ5A2, EQ6A3
A1: My focus will be solidarity. The tendency of disintegration of our societies into polarized camps that won't trust each other – that's the opposite of what we need in Germany. We need more cohesion – not less! Our politics have to serve everyone, even those who fear the coming change. Only if we are united can we solve the biggest problems of our time.
F1: Not a bad idea in theory - that said, Baerbock won’t let this stand, in light of your repeated conservative stances on social issues. As she tears into your policies as divisive and backwater, the whole debate erupts into chaos. Comparisons to the Trump-Biden debates of 2020 follow, as viewers unanimously agree - this was a shitshow.

SCHOLZ MERKELISM CYOA

Q16A1 wenn Merkelism >15
A1: What a travesty. But no, I don’t want to be seen as politicizing this catastrophe. Instead, I want to focus on my role as Finance Minister and promise quick, unbureaucratic financial aid to the affected regions - the Federal government has to step in.
F1: Your candor is seen as appropriate, and you come off as patient and level headed. As compensations and aid packages quickly follow, your crisis response is praised. As Laschet is pictured boyishly laughing when visiting the affected areas and Baerbock, still reeling from a plagiarism scandal, disappears from the scene, voters are starting to give you a second look…

Q16A4 wenn Merkelism <5
A4: Just visiting these areas is not enough! I have to get in there with the rescue teams. I want to be seen as a man of action, with rubber boots, and shovels and all. Get me some cameras, and some impactful photos with the local fire departments.
F4: Olaf, why the bombast? This is not your strong suit. The pictures are widely mocked in satire shows. Meanwhile, Laschet is pictured boyishly laughing while visiting the affected areas and Baerbock, still reeling from a plagiarism scandal, is nowhere to be seen. Consensus is, every major politician has flunked the response to this crisis.

Q19A3 wenn Merkelism >15
A3: What we need in Germany is composure. There’s no need to attack anyone. I will simply keep doing what I’m doing and show myself as the calm, competent alternative. My promise is predictability.
F3: That’s the recipe, right there. Calm and steady. In a time where leaders like Boris Johnson, Erdoğan, Bolsonaro or Trump raise hell, you’re exactly the kind of politician people crave for. Your favorability numbers are rivaling even that of the chancellor herself - with whom the comparisons don’t stop.

Q19A3 wenn Merkelism <5
A3: What we need in Germany is composure. There’s no need to attack anyone. I will simply keep doing what I’m doing and show myself as the calm, competent alternative. My promise is predictability.
F3: Your strategy has middling success. In a time where leaders like Boris Johnson, Erdoğan, Bolsonaro or Trump raise hell, this is the type of leader some people crave for - others however find your demeanor boring and dull. You simply lack the gravitas needed to exude the sort of competency which carried Merkel over four elections.

Q30A3 wenn Merkelism >15
A3: What we need in Germany is composure. There’s no need to attack anyone. I will simply keep doing what I’m doing and show myself as the calm, competent alternative. My promise is predictability.
F3: This is a wildcard - with middling success. While your Merkel-like demeanor appeals to centrists mostly from Laschet’s camp, Baerbocks base seems unphased. That said, maybe the power projection through your gravitas is enough to give you back legitimacy as a major contender.

Q30A3 wenn Merkelism <5
A3: What we need in Germany is composure. There’s no need to attack anyone. I will simply keep doing what I’m doing and show myself as the calm, competent alternative. My promise is predictability.
F3: Low poll numbers don’t get better by doing nothing. That’s the takeaway. With many people seeing this as a race between the moderate Laschet and the exciting Baerbock, you seem lame and unenthusiastic about even wanting the job. Saskia and Norbert are unhappy about your inaction, as others have to pick up the slack.


Q32A3 wenn Merkelism >15
A2: In light of recent events, let’s go on a cautious defensive. I am going to answer any questions in a calm, friendly, factual manner. No experiments, no heated exchanges, no controversial policies. I will stay true to myself - Merkel got good grades for her debate performances, and I'm going to evoke that.
F2: Are you sure, Olaf? Alright, I’m gonna trust your instincts… <br>
and I’d be well advised to, it seems. For some reason, voters in Germany really like this style of politics - Laschet's pointed questions roll off of you without a trace, while Baerbock doesn’t even stick out. People really do see the demeanor of a chancellor within you - and it’s enough to carry you to victory.

Q32A3 wenn Merkelism <5
A2: In light of recent events, let’s go on a cautious defensive. I am going to answer any questions in a calm, friendly, factual manner. No experiments, no heated exchanges, no controversial policies. I will stay true to myself - Merkel got good grades for her debate performances, and I'm going to evoke that.
F2: Are you sure, Olaf? Alright, I’m gonna trust your instincts… <br>
And it was a mistake, it seems. People were confused about your inaction and defensiveness, as Laschet bombarded you with attacks about cum-ex and wirecard, while Baerbock made an optimistic pitch for change. The journalists agree - the Scholzomat has been to your detriment.

SCHOLZ PARTY UNITY CYOA
Starts at 0.
The following answers add one point: Q1A1, Q2A3, EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A2, Q6A3, Q7MitteA3, Q27NetzwerkA1, Q27NetzwerkA3, Q28LinksA3, EQ3A3,
Q12A1, Q12A4, Q13A3, EQ4A3, Q15A1, Q16A4, EQ5A3, Q19A4, Q20A3

The following answers deduct one point: Q1A3, Q2A1, Q2A4, EQ1A4, Q3A2, Q4A3, Q5A3, Q6A4, EQ2A4, Q7MitteA1, Q28LinksA2, Q10A3, Q10A4, Q11A4, Q14A3, Q15A3, Q17A4, Q18A4, EQ5A2, EQ6A3, Q20A1, Q20A4, Q21A4

As long as Party Unity is above 4:
Q14A1
A1: No. Let the Union criticize me, other members of my party can defend me just fine. I’ll wait this out, patiently.
F1: The attacks by the Union are relentless, but your party defends you diligently. As partisan fault lines appear, voters are confused, and the matter mostly fades from the public consciousness. After all, you’re not the only one struggling right now - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and unreported earnings.
Q29A1
A1: No. Let the Union criticize me, other members of my party can defend me just fine. I’ll wait this out, patiently.
F1: The attacks by the Union are relentless, but your party defends you diligently. As partisan fault lines appear, voters are confused, and the matter mostly fades from the public consciousness. After all, you’re not the only one struggling right now - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and unreported earnings.

Q19A4
A4: Let’s talk issues: we need to fully coalesce the center-left around us. We want to show off that the ‘Good Old SPD’ is back - let’s emphasize our regime of social welfare reforms, a fairer tax system and a general focus on Respect towards people of all backgrounds, regardless of sex, ethnicity or social strata.
F4: Extending your newfound popularity towards the program of your party works flawlessly. The SPD shoots up in polling concerning who’s most able to tackle the problems Germany faces - and with you as a unifying figure head, the “Good Old” Social Democrats regain their favor with many voters.
Q21A3
A3: I’m going to be clear - the government is acting together here, and with such a serious matter, you shouldn’t throw around unfounded allegations about the Foreign Ministry as Armin Laschet does. The Ministries of the Interior, Defense and the Foreign Ministry are closely cooperating, and I abhor the attempts to slander this cooperation.
F3: This is a strong and integrous answer to CDU criticism, and the unified SPD puts up a good front as the sensible coalition partner, considering the circumstances. Still, while you blunt the impact, the only one to really gain from such a crisis is Annalena Baerbock.

Q22A1
A1: Let’s be frank. Wolfgang just told me, the prosecutor in this case is active in the CDU. The prosecution here could have just sent a written request for information. Now they’ve chosen another path. Everyone may judge that for themselves.
F1: While it’s probably no coincidence that everyone involved in the investigation is close to the CDU, your political opponents smell weakness in your snark. The other parties criticize your response, with the SPD defending you as much as they can. Meanwhile, Wolfgang is now also being investigated due to leaking this connection.
Q22A3
A3: Wolfgang just told me, of course the prosecutor is a CDU member! The life elixir of conservatives was always the strings with which they pave the way for lobbyists into government. Nothing is holy for the party with the C in its name - this right here is a serious case of instrumentalizing our judicial organs, and I’m going to hit back hard!
F3: A very unusual outburst from you. You mirror the words of NoWaBo - while members of the opposing parties join in condemning you for your defensiveness, the media can’t ignore the allegations of violations against judicial independence, especially since the SPD stand unified by your side. By taking the bull by its horns, you have reoriented the debate towards the CDU.


Q25A3
A3: Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans may have been my opponents, but they proved real leadership when they made me chancellor candidate nonetheless. I am not going to disappoint them - we’ll be taking the attack to Laschet's home state of North Rhine-Westphalia, a traditional SPD stronghold, and show the unity of the Social Democrats.
F3: The press really does have to admit - the SPD may be as united as they haven’t been since 1998. While Saskia and NoWaBo are not the most charismatic speakers, NRW is a valuable electoral prize, and the renewed image of your party might help potential voters to pull the trigger. When you return to Potsdam, the whole party is certain: “Scholz will tackle it”.

Q31A3
A3: The perspective the Greens propose for Germany isn't the way our country should go. Their „prohibitory politics“ would make living unaffordable in Germany. Things like banning inland-flights and a raise on gas prices are clearly clientele-politics, not fit for Germany's governing party. I want Germany to stay an industrial nation, building and exporting cars.
F3: Laschet is happy to join the mudslinging against Green politics, but your take seems quite outdated overall. The attacks seem to strengthen and motivate Baerbock all the more, and she’s able to forge a solid profile as the only candidate for meaningful climate action. At least your own party stands by your performance.

If Party Unity falls below 3:
Q14A1
A1: No. Let the Union criticize me, other members of my party can defend me just fine. I’ll wait this out, patiently.
F1: The attacks by the Union are relentless, but as enthusiasm about you in your party is middling, few go all out to defend you. The Wirecard affair remains a major thorn in your side for now. At least you’re not the only one struggling - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and unreported earnings.
Q17A4
A4: Laschet said that because of a day like this, you don’t change politics, and I have to agree. While we have to evaluate if there’s anything we need to do, let’s not make hasty, emotionally charged decisions.
F4: Laschet is not only your opponent, he was widely criticized for his statement. Now, the criticism wraps around to you as well, blunting any momentum you might've had from your crisis management. Even prominent SPD politicians like Matthias Miersch or Nina Scheer criticize you for your questionable attitude.
Q19A4
A4: Let’s talk issues: we need to fully coalesce the center-left around us. We want to show off that the ‘Good Old SPD’ is back - let’s emphasize our regime of social welfare reforms, a fairer tax system and a general focus on Respect towards people of all backgrounds, regardless of sex, ethnicity or social strata.
F4: Extending your newfound popularity towards the program of your party isn’t a bad move. The SPD certainly shoots up in polling concerning who’s most able to tackle the problems Germany faces. This fortifies the gains you’ve already made and might make further inroads into the Greens’ new coalition.
Q20A4
A4: A coalition with the Left is hard to imagine for me. Every government in Germany has to commit clearly to the transatlantic partnership, the membership in Nato and for a strong and sovereign European Union. Instead, I want to promise a fair treatment to the Liberals of the FDP in possible coalition talks.
F4: You’re soothing the concerns of moderates with the traditional party line, but some MP’s in the Parlamentarische Linke announce to continue their own Red-Red discussion groups. Meanwhile, the FDP under Christian Lindner openly prefers the CDU as a coalition partner.  Maybe your advances might win them over - just know, they’ll drive a hard bargain.
Q20A1
A1: I am sympathetic to a leftist-progressive alliance. I will not rule out a coalition with the Left, because this partisan pot-banging isn’t healthy for a Democracy. We have to have respect before the voters, only they can decide who will govern Germany, and what Germany needs is a turning point.
F1: For the first time in a Federal election, a government participation of Die Linke seems feasible. With the party’s dubious past and Foreign Policy, it’s a prospect that scares many moderates. Even inside the Seeheimer Circle, members of your own party threaten to abstain from the chancellor election, if Red-Red-Green comes to pass.

Q22A1
A1: Let’s be frank. Wolfgang just told me, the prosecutor in this case is active in the CDU. The prosecution here could have just sent a written request for information. Now they’ve chosen another path. Everyone may judge that for themselves.
F1: While it’s probably no coincidence that everyone involved in the investigation is close to the CDU, your political opponents smell weakness in your snark. Members of all parties condemn your response, even a handful of Social Democrats. Meanwhile, Wolfgang is now also being investigated due to leaking this connection.

Q22A3
A3: Wolfgang just told me, of course the prosecutor is a CDU member! The life elixir of conservatives was always the strings with which they pave the way for lobbyists into government. Nothing is holy for the party with the C in its name - this right here is a serious case of instrumentalizing our judicial organs, and I’m going to hit back hard!
F3: A very unusual outburst from you. You mirror the words of NoWaBo - but while the media does take these as serious concerns, your party is lukewarm about joining you in this risky escapade. Germany’s judicial system is nonpartisan and valued highly - dragging the discourse there does not make you more popular.

Q29A1
A1: No. Let the Union criticize me, other members of my party can defend me just fine. I’ll wait this out, patiently.
F1: The attacks by the Union are relentless, but as enthusiasm about you in your party is middling, few go all out to defend you. The Wirecard affair remains a major thorn in your side for now. At least you’re not the only one struggling - Baerbock is losing a lot of popularity due to a scandal surrounding her CV and unreported earnings.
Q25A1 und anticapitalist (8 von EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1, Q28LinksA2, EQ3A3, Q11A3, Q12A4, Q13A3, EQ4A4, Q15A2/Q15A4, Q19A4, Q20A1)
A1: Franziska Giffey and Manuela Schwesig are competent politicians trying to win the state elections for the SPD in Berlin and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern respectively. Let’s show the unity and gravitas of the renewed Social Democratic Party by having some events in Meckpom and our capital!
F1: Franziska and Manuela have very real chances to win their elections, but they are moderates, and somewhat wary about your radical rhetoric. Nonetheless, they take the opportunity to campaign with you in Schwerin and Berlin. It’s not far from there to your home in nearby Potsdam - let’s hope they still believe that “Scholz will tackle it”.
Q25A3
A3: Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans may have been my opponents, but they proved real leadership when they made me chancellor candidate nonetheless. I am not going to disappoint them - we’ll be taking the attack to Laschet's home state of North Rhine-Westphalia, a traditional SPD stronghold, and show the unity of the Social Democrats.
F3: The campaign has been met with quite a lot of discord - while Saskia and NoWaBo are not the most charismatic speakers, mending fences with leadership might help to alleviate this. NRW is also a key state. When you return to Potsdam, hopefully you’ve convinced the Good Old SPD: “Scholz will tackle it”.

Q25A3 und anticapitalist (7 von EQ1A3, Q4A1, Q5A1, Q28LinksA2, EQ3A3, Q11A3, Q12A4, Q13A3, EQ4A4, Q15A2/Q15A4, Q19A4, Q20A1)
A3: Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans may have been my opponents, but they proved real leadership when they made me chancellor candidate nonetheless. I am not going to disappoint them - we’ll be taking the attack to Laschet's home state of North Rhine-Westphalia, a traditional SPD stronghold, and show the unity of the Social Democrats.
F3: Saskia and Norbert are happy to appear with you - Seeheimer-moderates though are more wary. Nonetheless, NRW is a valuable electoral prize, and going all-in on a reformed course might win back voters who abandoned the SPD during the 2000’s. When you return to Potsdam, the left wing of your party is certain: “Scholz will tackle it”.

Q25A3 und fiscally conservative (6 von EQ1A2, Q5A3, Q6A4, Q7MitteA1, EQ3A1, Q11A3, Q12A2, Q13A1, Q15A3, Q20A4)
A3: Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans may have been my opponents, but they proved real leadership when they made me chancellor candidate nonetheless. I am not going to disappoint them - we’ll be taking the attack to Laschet's home state of North Rhine-Westphalia, a traditional SPD stronghold, and show the unity of the Social Democrats.
F3: Saskia and Norbert are a bit disheartened about the path you took in this campaign, but feel obligated to appear with you. Others in the Parlamentarische Linke though, not so much. Either way, NRW is a valuable electoral prize, and centrists could be convinced of your stances. When you return to Potsdam, the moderate wing of the SPD is certain: “Scholz will tackle it”.

Q31A3
A3: The perspective the Greens propose for Germany isn't the way our country should go. Their „prohibitory politics“ would make living unaffordable in Germany. Things like banning inland-flights and a raise on gas prices are clearly clientele-politics, not fit for Germany's governing party. I want Germany to stay an industrial nation, building and exporting cars.
F3: Laschet is happy to join the mudslinging against Green politics, but your take seems quite outdated overall. The attacks seem to strengthen and motivate Baerbock all the more, and she’s able to forge a solid profile as the only candidate for meaningful climate action. With seven some SPD politicians like Matthias Miersch and Nina Scheer criticizing you publicly, the Greens decidedly win the Triell.

LEADERSHIP RACE CYOA

Wenn EQ0A1 (Klara Geywitz)
-> Alles wie gehabt

Wenn EQ0A2 (Gesine Schwan)
Q1: The race takes shape, as Kevin Kühnert orchestrates a leftist top candidacy, consisting of Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. With eight notable duos running, there will be a run-off decidingbetween  the final two. You and Gesine Schwan are the only trans-sectional ticket, but both of you are seen as candidates of the past. What approach do you take to convince the party members to vote for you regardless?
A1: The party needs to be reinvigorated, and we need to return to our Social Democratic roots for that. We need new answers, a vision for progress and action on the issues, like climate change or the wealth gap. One can only notice how the CDU's politics lies like mildew over the republic.
F1: Gesine is happy that you kept your promise, and while you’re usually considered a moderate, your new profile veers more and more leftist. While you get a strong plurality in the first round, Esken and NoWaBo seem like a fresher take on the same message, defeating you in the run-off. Your course leads to tensions with the CDU, and you have to do some convincing to keep your job.
A2: In the last few years, the party has lost the trust of many voters. We need to win it back, which means finding Social Democratic answers to the questions of our time. For this, all wings of our party need to be unified. I stand for a confident SPD that dares to do something.
F2: With a broadly agreeable take that builds on the cross-sectionality of your ticket, you win a narrow plurality in the first round. In the run-off, you unfortunately incur a decisive loss from the more exciting Esken / NoWaBo -duo. At least you keep your job as Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finances.
A3: I’m the candidate in this election who stands for the continuation of the Grand coalition. There’s a lot we have achieved together, and I believe it’s in the best interest of the SPD to keep doing what we’re doing. Agreeable Policies, good compromises and a good working relationship with the CDU/CSU is needed to bring this country forward.
F3: As you stand by a Pro-Groko take, Gesine is outraged that you’d betray her promise - removing herself from your ticket, instead supporting Esken and NoWaBo. You exchange her for Klara Geywitz, but the whole affair is embarrassing to the entire party, and you end up in 4th place. With such a renunciation, the calls for resignation are unbearable, and Merkel ends up firing you. Your political career is over.
A4: I’m the incumbent Vice Chancellor and Finance Minister of Germany - none of the other candidates has my name recognition. I’ll focus less on policy specifics and trust that being the most well-known candidate will carry me to victory. I can lead this party with the dignity it deserves.
F4: You seem to build on the Gravitas of your ticket, but to many Jusos, you seem outdated and weak. While Gesine’s message outshines your own, you still lose decisively in the run-off to Esken and NoWaBo. You keep your job as Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finances, but your position in the party is severely weakened by this affair.

-> Außer bei Q1A3, ersetzt automatisch Q2 durch Q26

Wenn EQ0A3 (Claudia Moll)
Q1: The race takes shape, as Kevin Kühnert orchestrates a leftist top candidacy, consisting of Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. With eight notable duos running, there will be a run-off deciding between the final two. You and Claudia Moll become the centrist’s favorite ticket, as an unlikely duo. What approach do you take to convince the party members to vote for you?
A1: The party needs to be reinvigorated, and we need to return to our Social Democratic roots for that. We need new answers, a vision for progress and action on the issues, like climate change or the wealth gap. One can only notice how the CDU's politics lies like mildew over the republic.
F1: To everyone’s surprise, you choose to openly criticize the Grand Coalition. While she does agree with your assessment, Claudia, a Seeheimer, is a bit uncomfortable with your leftist pivot. As certain disagreements are noted by the press, you lose the run-off decisively to Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. The whole affair also leads to tensions with the CDU, but in the end, you get to keep your job in the Merkel IV administration.
A2: In the last few years, the party has lost the trust of many voters. We need to win it back, which means finding Social Democratic answers to the questions of our time. For this, all wings of our party need to be unified. I stand for a confident SPD that dares to do something.
F2: Your down-to-earth middle-of-the-road take is nicely contrasted by Claudia’s own fiery defense of a consistent social policy. While you have a great showing in the first round, the run-off has you lose narrowly to the left’s top ticket, Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. At least you still have your job as Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finances.
A3: I’m the candidate in this election who stands for the continuation of the Grand coalition. There’s a lot we have achieved together, and I believe it’s in the best interest of the SPD to keep doing what we’re doing. Agreeable Policies, good compromises and a good working relationship with the CDU/CSU is needed to bring this country forward.
F3: Enveloping yourself as the candidate of the status quo, when the party is polling at its all-time low is not a winning strategy, despite praise from the CDU. You don’t even make it to the run-off, which is later won by Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. In the light of this humiliation, some call for resignation, but you keep your job regardless.
A4: I’m the incumbent Vice Chancellor and Finance Minister of Germany - none of the other candidates has my name recognition. I’ll focus less on policy specifics and trust that being the most well-known candidate will carry me to victory. I can lead this party with the dignity it deserves.
F4: This attitude seems to be out of touch with what the party wants. You and Claudia become the decisive “Seeheimer”-ticket, but as things are, you only narrowly make the runoff, losing it decisively against Esken and NoWaBo in the end. Despite calls for resignation, you keep your job with Merkel IV, although your position in the party seems to be weakened.

Wenn EQ0A4 (Bärbel Bas)
Q1: The race takes shape, as Kevin Kühnert orchestrates a leftist top candidacy, consisting of Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. With eight notable duos running, there will be a run-off deciding between the final two. You and Bärbel Bas are the only cross-sectional ticket, running as natural successors to the current leadership of the SPD. What approach do you take to convince the party members to vote for you?
A1: The party needs to be reinvigorated, and we need to return to our Social Democratic roots for that. We need new answers, a vision for progress and action on the issues, like climate change or the wealth gap. One can only notice how the CDU's politics lies like mildew over the republic.
F1: This surprisingly impassioned take easily gets you into the second round, as Bärbel echoes your pragmatic critiques of the current government. Nonetheless, through your association with the GroKo you still lose to Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans by just a few hundred votes. Your course leads to tensions with the CDU, but in the end, you get to keep your job as Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finances.
A2: In the last few years, the party has lost the trust of many voters. We need to win it back, which means finding Social Democratic answers to the questions of our time. For this, all wings of our party need to be unified. I stand for a confident SPD that dares to do something.
F2: With an establishmentarian, but broadly agreeable take your calm and optimistic plea reaps you a narrow plurality and entry into the second round, where you unfortunately incur a decisive loss from your left against Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans. You keep your job as Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finances though.
A3: I’m the candidate in this election who stands for the continuation of the Grand coalition. There’s a lot we have achieved together, and I believe it’s in the best interest of the SPD to keep doing what we’re doing. Agreeable Policies, good compromises and a good working relationship with the CDU/CSU is needed to bring this country forward.
F3: When asked about your stance, Bärbel seems lukewarm. She expected you to run more leftist, and although she stays on, privately, she’s relieved that you narrowly miss the run-off. She goes on to support Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans, who win the contest. In light of this humiliation, some call for your resignation, but you defy your critics ardently.
A4: I’m the incumbent Vice Chancellor and Finance Minister of Germany - none of the other candidates has my name recognition. I’ll focus less on policy specifics and trust that being the most well-known candidate will carry me to victory. I can lead this party with the dignity it deserves.
F4: This attitude alone, the “Scholzomat”, didn't seem to hit the mood of the party. Although your ticket is packed with Gravitas, the run-off is won by Saskia Esken and Norbert Walter-Borjans, from outside the camp. Your position in the party seems slightly weakened, but calls for your resignation are met with a steadfast defense from your colleagues.


